All of these are our bad habit or unconsciousness.
So far we are nothing but trying every effort to destroy our natural environment, which is actually harming us.
Little by little, let's start with you, the first step of consciousness, which will be a very big task in the conjunction.
Md. Iftekhar Rahman, Naogaon
Protest
On the fourth page of the The Prothom Alo on April 24, a news appeared before me on 'Implementation of the project before the approval',
It has been mentioned in the news that before the approval, the project has been completed by some public representatives.
This information is not correct.
It was informed to us that the work development of allocated  90 lakh taka in the quota of Honorable MPs is almost done on the way to the end and the bill has been paid in large numbers according to the government rules.
I have no contact with the projects that have been made and the quotes related to the project from public representatives.
I did not have any kind of comment that was published in the news with the reporter.
The news reporter referred my statement totally deliberately.
The statement of the former BNP president, who has been exposed to the news, has been expelled from the party for a long time for breaking the law.
His statement has been expressed for the evil purpose of creating confusion among the BNP leaders and workers.
I protest against this kind of inconsistent news.
Abu Taleb, general secretary
Bangladesh Nationalist Party Parshuram Upazila Branch, Feni
When will Pakistan apologize?
When we hear the word 'Pakistan', it is the horrific '71 ;
The black chapter of the history of bloodshed of Bangali blood.
'71,the sad chapter,the death of 30 million lives and the loss of dignity of two lakh mother and sister
Such an example of genocide and barbarity is rare in the history of the world.
Freedom fighter still bears the wound in the heart of this Bengal;
How many mothers still mourn for the loss of their children.
How can we forget such heartbreaking history?
We did not see the liberation war.
I have not seen its destructive, horrific form.
But I felt it.
I felt that the by artist's color-pusher canvas, magazines, documentaries or media that are in place.
Regrettably, when one of the country's Pakistan-loving double-edged animals, born in the soil of Bangladesh,  with the smell of smell of this country, whose are growing in the light and air of this country, those who, instead of endorsing the country, instead of supporting the country, they support the enemy of once in their heart.
It seems sad to see such love for Pakistan.
It is a matter of surprise that not only in cricket but also in many cases Pakistan has given priority to Pakistan.
Those who are not repentant for the worst of 40 years of independence, not far from apology, those who are still unsafe in this country, so much more than their respect to the country and the martyrs, except for the humiliation and disrespect.
The souls of 30 million martyrs will get peace on that day when Pakistan will actually pray for official forgiveness.
Nuranabi Belal
Upashahor, Rangpur
The neglected arts and curiosity
On April 22, 2011, in the letter of the Prothom Alo, I agree with the writings of a teacher on fine arts.
Fine art is not merely just drawing picture, but it has its need in science.
There are many requirements in commercial areas, also in archeology.
A cartoonist is able to convey something to the general people by his pen easily, where a writer is unable to convince the public in many sentences.
Note that I am the guardian of a girl of Natore Government Girls High School.
I have heard that the number obtained in the arts would be marked in the mark sheet, but the number would not be added in total number.
I do not understand the matter.
Because, the subject of Fine Arts is classed as a compulsory subject to the seventh grade;
But the number obtained does not add up.
What is it, if there is no assessment, why would the students and teachers be interested in that matter?
Therefore, appeal to the concerned authorities, without neglecting the arts, and understanding the importance of the matter,please take action.
Shafiur Rahman, Natore.
Property tax
In the past, property tax was prevalent in Bangladesh, but it was later withdrawn because it was not considered logical.
Recently the Revenue Board recommends the re-introduction.
This will increase the revenue of the government, or revenue of officials will increase, it is a questionable topic.
Besides, regardless of the market value, it will be against the fair.
Because accounting takes into account the purchase price.
On the other hand, the price increase in property never leads to a person's income.
Then how does he pay taxes?
Now so on tax has to be paid on income.
So the Honorable Finance Minister said exactly, it needs more thought.
In this case public opinion can be verified and discussed in detail.
Mohammad Didarul Alam
Ice Factory Road, Chittagong.
Polythene is coming back
Polythene is banned with so much enthusiasm.
For some time it was still in force
Then?
That which was before, it has come back.
Polythene is back in the marketplace
Now, after purchasing something from the shop, the polythen is handed over by the shopkeeper.
Paper trunks or sock bags are not seen presently.
What was gained by this enthusiasm?
Polythene was prohibited for not being environment-friendly.
But the market is going on again with the forbidden things, but no one is being alerted.
Nuranabi Belal, Upashahar, Rangpur
Motorcycle on footpath
With the increase in population, there are many problems.
In particular, the rate of traffic congestion in the streets of Dhaka city is unimaginable.
Due to traffic congestion, people can not go to the office on time, can not finish the work on time.
Because of the harassment of motorcyclists and shopkeepers in Shani Akhra, Jatrabari, Sayedabad, Gulistan, Motijheel, Paltan, Malibag, Mouchak, Magbazar, Satarata, Tibet and Mirpur areas;
Even where there are traffic jams, ordinary people are unhappy with motorcycles and shopkeepers on footpath.
There is no way to walk on the footpath for motorcycles and shopkeepers.
The motorists are disturbing pedestrians on footpath.
When they see a traffic congestion or traffic signal, they leave the road and drive the motorcycle on the sidewalk.
This is happening in front of traffic police .
For this frequent accidents are occuring.
The one thing that bothers people most is the motorcycle horn.
When people walk on the sidewalk, they have different minds on their heads.
At that time, When the horn starts to sound, physical and mental disasters took place and pedestrians suffered from accidents.
Secondly, most people are heart patients.
Their heart problem increases due to the motorcycle market.
On one hand, the sidewalks have been occupied by the shops, shopkeepers.
Even is this case, as far as possible, people try and keep using the sidewalk.
But now that has become impossible too.
Even protesting against  motorcycle ride on footpath and take over of sidewalk by the small shopkeepers, there is no result.
Police and traffic police are not taking any action in this regard.
So, we are trying to draw attendtion of the Dhaka City Corporation, the Honorable Communication Minister and the appropriate authorities to look into this matter.
Low quality commentary
In a letter written on Letters section of the Prothom Alo on April 27 on 'BTV's commentary', I would like to say that Bangladesh Betar has been broadcasting live streams of different sports from the country and abroad for a long time.
But the audiences are deep concerned about the recent low-quality commentaries that have been broadcast in radio.
Many early commentators of the radio have already been old and most of them are more than seventy years old.
However, the radio authorities are still broadcasting commentary day after day by them.
Although these elderly commentators have gained popularity during their youth youth, presently, due to old age and lack of sight, sitting in the commentary box they can not properly identify the field players and failing to give commentary on the series speed due to lack of memory.
We the audiences are hope that the radio authority will be aware and aware about the quality commentary of sports in the future.
Ataur Rahman, Chittagong University.
Propaganda
Traditional Rajban Bihar of the hill district of Rangamati is one of the Buddhist religious places .
If you say only pilgrimage, it will be wrong.
Rajban Bihar is also an interesting and spectacular places for other religious people of the country.
When the name of Rajbhan Vihara utters, the first name comes, is our most famous Bhattya Sadhanananda Mahasthabri, who is extremely worshipful and enlightened personality to the Buddhist community due to his infinite abandonment and hardships.
The respected Bhatta Sadhanandan Mahasthabir is known as 'Banvantye' to everyone.
Respected monk is currently suffering from old-fashioned diseases.
If the respected monk dies suddenly ( Bengali-Hill Buddhists religious people), we may become guardianless.
But the matter of remorse that, now, some vulnerable people started spreading false propaganda through mobile phone messages with honor of the respected monk.
It is said that if the message of respected monk is not spread to 11 people within seven days, the user of the cell phone will be ruined,  and if do so it will be good for the campaigner.
As a conscious citizen,I am intensly protesting against these kind of propaganda  preaching through mobile phones in the name of a respected monk.
I hope the Rajban Bihar committee will take necessary measures to stop the false propaganda of vested interests of these vulnerable people in the name of campaign through mobile phones.
Student-teacher relationship
Respecting the teachers is like a lost tradition but not a forgotten memory.
Perhaps for that, American historian Jack Barzun (Jacques Barzun) regreted and said, "Teaching is not an extinct industry but its glory is a lost tradition."
It is quite easy to know how the teachers are ongoing in the current context in a third world's small country like Bangladesh .
A faded teachers due to financial restrain has a countless responsibility on their shoulders .
Who keeps the news of the makers, who are working for a lifetime for construction of the boatman of a state?
Seeing the relationship between today's teacher and student it is nothing but to be surprised.
Modern-day students are dumbfounded to give proper respect to the teacher.
And seeing the pain and suffering of the teachers, the present meritorious students are reluctant to attend the teaching profession.
In this way, if the future generation realize that the teaching profession is the most neglected profession, then who will take charge of the next generation?
Today is the(19.01.2012) National Teacher's day in our country.
But this day is unknown to most students.
This day,the bridge between the teachers and the students which is forgotten proves the teachers' current status.
We hope that the government should step forward to take steps for the responsibility of removing darkness by burning flames for enlighting for the welfare of the teachers 
I request them to award the teachers with the highest honor  .
Sonnet Dev
Chittagong College, Chittagong.
Traffic jam and railway
With the increase of population in the capital Dhaka and its adjacent areas, the problem of traffic is increasing gradually and it's intensifying.
In addition, the traffic jam is also getting worse.
However, if the railway ministry was kind to the mass people, the problem would have been solved very easily.
For this goal, five proposals are presented briefly at the railway ministry, which can be implemented in short time and with very little money.
1. A new 12-km long dual gauge from Joydevpur to Tongi and a 20-meter-long meter gauge railway line from Kamalapur to Narayanganj will be formed urgently.
2. Construction of three C-grade railway stations in Jurain on Dhaka-Narayanganj route, on the north-side of Mohakhali Railway Gate on the Dhaka-Tongi route and between Magbazar Wireless Railgate and Malibagh Railwaygate, due to the huge public transport and important connectivity.
3. Establishing a Dual Gauge railway line from Pubail to Dhirashram Railway Station for the fast connectivity of the Eastern and Eastern districts of the country and Agartala-Kolkata (Vay-Pubail, Joydevpur) routes bypassing Dhaka and Tongi railway stations.
4. Operate two pairs of trains daily on Akhaura-Ishwardi and Ishwardi-Akhaura Vayya Tongi (Until the railway line is not established from Pubail to Dhirashram) .
5. Two more pairs of new trains to operate on Dhaka-Joydevpur and Dhaka-Narayanganj routes.
Implementation of the aforementioned proposals on a priority basis according to the serial number will result in a revolutionary change in quick communication and the reduction of traffic crisis.
For this,on one hand, ordinary people can travel at low cost and short time, whereas on the other hand, the exclusive business of bus owners will also be ebbed.
Specially requesting the Railway Minister for understanding the matter deeply and implementing it urgently.
Dr. Mohammad Ashraf Hossain Gazi
Joydevpur, Gazipur.
To the Prime Minister
My husband Shahid Nurul Islam (father-in-law: Late Lutfal Karim, Sung-Charlakshmi, Post Office- Ramgati Hat, Upazila-Ramgati, District- Laxmipur),served as Subdar Major at Pilkhana BDR which is now BGP Headquarters.
During the 2009 BDR mutiny, the rebels killed him cruelly and kept him in the mass grave for obstructing the rebellion.
Later, we took him from Dhaka's Medical College morgue and buried him in village home without proper state honor.
On 20 August 2009, according to the government order, under the command of BDR Comilla sector commander Colonel Mirza Ejajur Rahman, a guard of honor was given to him and he was given state honor.
He also placed wreaths at his tomb on behalf of the Director General.
My husband was very honest.
We were the victims of river erosion twice time.
While my husband was alive, we used to maintain a livelihood of much hardship with his low-income money.
My husband could not leave any wealth for the future of his children's  .
All of my husband's pension money was being finishes used to pay back his loaned money.
Presently I am maintaining a miserable livelihood  with the little monthly pension's money.
Honorable Prime Minister, You have extended the help and sympathy towards the families of the the martyrs' of the BDR rebellion.
You have also arranged rehabilitation for them.
But I did not get the declared privileges of the Honorable Prime Minister  by the honorable Prime Minister for the families of the BDR mutineers and the organization of bankmakers.
I'm helpless and destitute.
In order to facilitate the future and daily life of my children and me, I request a sincere appeal for all of the help and cooperation of the BDR mutiny that you have declared for the martyrs' families.
Student-teacher relationship
Respecting the teachers is like a lost tradition but not a forgotten memory.
Perhaps for that, American historian Jack Barzun (Jacques Barzun) regreted and said, "Teaching is not an extinct industry but its glory is a lost tradition."
It is quite easy to know how the teachers are ongoing in the current context in a third world's small country like Bangladesh .
A faded teachers due to financial restrain has a countless responsibility on their shoulders .
Who keeps the news of the makers, who are working for a lifetime for construction of the boatman of a state?
Seeing the relationship between today's teacher and student it is nothing but to be surprised.
Modern-day students are dumbfounded to give proper respect to the teacher.
And seeing the pain and suffering of the teachers, the present meritorious students are reluctant to attend the teaching profession.
In this way, if the future generation realize that the teaching profession is the most neglected profession, then who will take charge of the next generation?
Today is the(19.01.2012) National Teacher's day in our country.
But this day is unknown to most students.
This day,the bridge between the teachers and the students which is forgotten proves the teachers' current status.
We hope that the government should step forward to take steps for the responsibility of removing darkness by burning flames for enlighting for the welfare of the teachers 
I request them to award the teachers with the highest honor  .
Sonnet Dev
Chittagong College, Chittagong.
To the Prime Minister
My husband Shahid Nurul Islam (father-in-law: Late Lutfal Karim, Sung-Charlakshmi, Post Office- Ramgati Hat, Upazila-Ramgati, District- Laxmipur),served as Subdar Major at Pilkhana BDR which is now BGP Headquarters.
During the 2009 BDR mutiny, the rebels killed him cruelly and kept him in the mass grave for obstructing the rebellion.
Later, we took him from Dhaka's Medical College morgue and buried him in village home without proper state honor.
On 20 August 2009, according to the government order, under the command of BDR Comilla sector commander Colonel Mirza Ejajur Rahman, a guard of honor was given to him and he was given state honor.
He also placed wreaths at his tomb on behalf of the Director General.
My husband was very honest.
We were the victims of river erosion twice time.
While my husband was alive, we used to maintain a livelihood of much hardship with his low-income money.
My husband could not leave any wealth for the future of his children's  .
All of my husband's pension money was being finishes used to pay back his loaned money.
Presently I am maintaining a miserable livelihood  with the little monthly pension's money.
Honorable Prime Minister, You have extended the help and sympathy towards the families of the the martyrs' of the BDR rebellion.
You have also arranged rehabilitation for them.
But I did not get the declared privileges of the Honorable Prime Minister  by the honorable Prime Minister for the families of the BDR mutineers and the organization of bankmakers.
I'm helpless and destitute.
In order to facilitate the future and daily life of my children and me, I request a sincere appeal for all of the help and cooperation of the BDR mutiny that you have declared for the martyrs' families.
Female student's hall are demanded.
Sher-e-Bangla Agricultural University is the second among four Agricultural Universities of Bangladesh.
The university is located in Sher-e-Bangla Nagar which is known as the busiest and important area of ​​Dhaka.
It started as a university in 2001 and currently has three male students' hall and a female students' hall.
Although it is a matter of regret but it is true that one-third of the students of this university are female students and there is only one hall is allocated for them.
Although the budget for the new female student's hall has been allocated in the 2010 budget, it has not been implemented yet.
As a result, half of the girls have to live a life of pain in the library known as the new girl hall.
The situation is so bad that girls have to make bed on the floor in this tropical winter, which is very painful.
Apart from this, there is no reading room, dining and adequate bathroom facilities for women.
So drawing attention of the authorities, to save talented students from this life and make sure of our bright future by building a new residential hall for us.
Jayatee pal
Sher-e-Bangla Agricultural University, Dhaka.
Demanding railways
Dhaka is a populated capital city.
Many people of the country live in Dhaka for various purposes.
Likewise, many people of the northern area live in Dhaka.
There, many do jobs, many do study and so on.
Most of these people travel to Dhaka by rail.
Because of the absence of any railroad from Bogra to Sirajganj many Dhaka-bound northern people, especially people of Rangpur, Lalmonirhat, Gaibandha and Bogra district suffer too much trouble.
For this reason, the people of this region have to go to Sirajganj by rounding absurdly Santhar, Natore, Pabna.
It takes 11 to 13 hours to go to Dhaka from Rangpur or Lalmonirhat.
Because of this, many passengers have to suffer.
On the other side, train delay make the delay to leave again.
So trains can not leave at certain times.
Many times, especially at the end of the week, the trains leave eight to 10 hours later.
On the special days these times are delayed more.
This has resulted in many problems faced by many people, especially college and university students.
If there are railways from Bogra to Sirajganj it would take Dhaka-bound people to reache 6-8 hours in Dhaka. 
By this, the trains could have gone on certain times.
Immediately start the railroad from Bogra to Sirajganj  .
ABM Saqlain Arefin
Jagannath University
BPL
The Bangladesh Premier League logo (BPL) is unveiled in a glittering manner.
On December 29 last year, State Minister for Sports Ahad Ali Sarkar and President of Bangladesh Cricket Board AHM Mustafa Kamal unveiled the logo.
Six Icon cricketer Shakib Al Hasan, Mushfiqur Rahim, Tamim Iqbal, Mohammad Ashraful, Shahriar Nafis and Alok Kapali were present on the occasion.
Apart from this, current and former cricketers were also present.
Popular commentator, India's former cricketer Arun Lal said, 'I believe BPL like IPL will be popular'.
Before unveiling the logo, an exceptional event was organized.
Six artists; Kaayum Chowdhury, Rafiqun Nabi, Hashem Khan, Shishir Bhattacharya, Monirul Islam and Kanakchampa Chakma drew pictures around the covered logo.
Six icons of six teams participated in drawing pictures.
Nowadays, most of the satellite's channel has become tormented to watch with family and friends advertise 
Only news and events can be watched roughly.
At present, the path has also begun to stop.
Drug business in Goran
Under Khilgaon Thana, Goran Adarshbag (Bank Colony), Nurbagh and Nabinbag Raj are backward and neglected than other areas of capital.
The roads in the area are damaged, no manhole lids and electricity, water problems, drainage systems are very bad.
Although local residents accepted these trivial problems as their the fate, but now drug trade is being seen as a blow to the slaughter.
As soon as it is the evening, the drug trade starts freely in two lanes of the Ideal Bazaar daily.
All types of narcotics like cannabis, Phensidyl, heroin, yaba and local liquor are available easily .
Drug traders publicly make and sell cannabis.
The drug addicted people sit in every corner of the lane
For these reasons, theft and hijacking cases in the area have been increased a lot.
Due to availability of drugs to the emerging boys, they have gone to astray.
That is why the people are living in extreme anxiety.
And on the road of Madani Jilpar Road, there is a pile of trash.
So it is very difficult to get along with the road.
The lakes are being filled up by dirt-garbage.
City corporation has been charged more than once for the overflow of drain water and road-lights.
On the issue of prevention of drug business, hijacking and theft and civil protection, police station has been informed many times.
However, the concerned authorities or local police administration did not take any initiative to solve these problems.
Prior to the last parliamentary elections, local political leaders and current MPs once or twice inquiry area, but after the election no activities of them could be seen or did not even come to quest the residents of the area.
Locals are hoping that the Honorable MPs will take effective steps to solve the problems mentioned.
Attention seeking to the senior authority of the police administration to take appropriate action to stop the drug trade in the area.
Atiar Rahman
North Goran, Khilgaon
Kumira Ghat
Sandwip is a secluded island from the mainland, where about four million people live.
Among the few routes connecting Sandwip to the mainland by the sea is the Kumira-Guptchra route located on the eastern side of Sandwip.
Although the main route to communicate with the west end of the east, the Sandwip town on the west end of the sea, and now it has become the main point of communication due to the expansion of the East and due to the use of the Santal Canal-Kumira-Gupt- Racha route.
Everyday hundreds of people are traveling in this route by traller, speed boat, etc. and every day there is a lot of goods being taken.
The government sea-ambulance movement is operated to carry death-row patients on this route.
In this route, the government earns huge revenue from passengers and goods.
At present, the government is constructing jetty and landing station at Kumira Ghat and Guptcharha Ghat at a cost of several crores.
Once the construction of the jetty is completed, the vessel will be able to move directly to the end of the Kumira front of the mainland.
Even the goods from outer ship can be redeemed.
The completion of the construction of the jetty in the Guptchharha Gate located on the Sandwip side of this route will also make it  possible to anchor directly on the side of Sandwip and it will be easier to get the passengers and goods fluctuating.
The Guptchara canal adjacent to the Guptchra is now used for the anchor.
For a long time the canal is filling up due not being renovated .
If the canal fills up it will make the passenger and goods fluctuating impossible.
So reforming the Guptahar canal is very important.
The absence of permanent passenger camp on the Guptchra border it makes difficult to transport passenger and goods , especially in the rainy season.
So there is a need to build a passenger camp cum cyclone shelter in Guptara ghat.
Which can be used as a coastguard station,and it will increase the sea-way safety.
The construction of the jetty is going on for a long time, which has created a lot of public concern about the completion.
Therefore, the demand of the lives of the people of Sandwip that the jetty should be speedily completed and the Kumira ghat and Guptchra ghat have been upgraded to the river ports for proper management of the two port passengers and goods transport.
Dr. SA Sajjad, Chittagong.
Workplace in own area
Fourth class employees working in various government departments live a life of low income due to low-paid jobs.
Their livelihood is very difficult to maintain in the market of these ups and downs.
Apart from this, it is difficult to do treatment of their old parents and children with the education .
Many families have younger siblings, whose expenses are also beared by the employee.
Almost the majority of the working-family only one earning person exists(especially in the village) .
As a result, he has to bear all the expenses of his family.
Even then, when the workplace of the fourth class employee is completely opposed to his own area or not in any surrounding area, there is no limit to the sufferings.
There are many employees, whose house is Netrokona, Sunamganj, but their workplaces are Rangpur, Dinajpur, Panchagarh;
Home is in Rajshahi but workplace in Jamalpur, Sylhet
It is not possible to remain closely around the workplace with family in the market price hike .
Maybe living but is not able to educate children in city's these expensive educational institutions.
For this, the family is forced to stay in the village house .
Dur to having a home at one end, and workplace on the other side, it is very difficult to give time to family and care of elderly parents.
Besides, one month's salary is almost gone if visit the house because the transportation charge is too high.
Apart from this there is no easy communication system with the remote district town, the transport sector levies more rent, which is very difficult for a fourth class employee.
The employee is forced to stay at the workplace month after month.
On the other hand, the elderly parents are stuck in old age due to lack of treatment and the absence of their son.
The children in the house sit enthusiastically for the father.
But at the end of the month when they can not come, they live in despair.
Considering the fourth-class low paid employees, on behalf of their own and family, requesting the concerned authorities to provide workplace in their respective areas or adjacent areas.
Railway ambulance
Every day several people from different upazilas and districts go to Dhaka to take better services.
They can not transport the patient by nothing but with the ambulance only.
Transporting patients from far away to the capital in such way is expensive, as well as risky and painful.
It becomes difficult to get proper treatment due to excess costing.
An ambulance does not agree to come from any end to the capital without taking 10-12 thousand taka.
20-25 thousand taka are spent just for coming and going.
I think, only government can do the management properly for these common people .
The present government has taken some groundbreaking steps.
As the railway is being separated as a new ministry.
The government wants to do something for the common people.
In that sense,saying that our railway minister is a worthy person with a wise senior political personality.
Honorable Minister, you said, I do not know what to do in such a short time.
But we will try to fix the railway schedule.
Besides, you have taken a number of short, medium and long-term plans.
I would have been happy to include this proposal in a short-term plan.
For the general public,I know you have a lot of ideas to do.
So, we can make mobile train cum ambulance by adding a couch with intercity train.
In this, people will be encouraged and will be able to save more from the expenses and transport patients very well.
You can have 10 beds in one room.
There can be a qualified doctor, nurse and two attendants there.
I think renting 2000-2500 per bed, but people will accept it very easily.
There are many retired doctors like me to work.
People will be greatly benefited if the experimental launch starts in Dinajpur, Nilphamari, Rangpur, Lalmonirhat, Rajshahi, Khulna, Jamalpur, Sylhet, Chittagong and Kishoreganj with the intercity train.
When this service is started, people will taste some innovation and your name will be written in a gold ring.
The waste of national resources will be reduced and people can go to the capital at low cost.
This step will be a milestone of breakthrough movements.
So I urge the Railway Minister to start an experimental test.
Dr. Kajal Kumar Kundu
Nilphamari market, Nilphamari.
Park of Dhaka
In the capital Dhaka, there is a gradual decrease in the number of breathtaking areas.
In this Dhaka city, there are about 54 parks in the city of one crore and 5 million people.
Which is much less than what is needed.
Anything that exists have been incomprehensible because of inadequate maintenance and lack of cleanliness.
There is no interest about these parks among the pedestrians because of the rubbish, floating people, drug addicts and most of the time closed during the day.
People are coming to the capital because of natural disaster, unemployment and a little more income.
These people's then belong to either in slums or by the side of the road.
If they are not rehabilitated then this problem will not be solved.
Everybody comes to the park for a little cleaner and quiet environment.
But in the parks, there is more trouble in getting rid of dirt-rubbish, stench, and the sound of cars around them.
This situation needs to be cured.
Otherwise, the last sign of green in Dhaka city will come to an end.
It is necessary to take proper initiative by the authorities to create an opportunity for a little relaxed environment.
Save the important parks of Dhaka.
Development by deforestation
On January 18, the Prothom Alo published the news on 'Making a dam by deforesting sponsored from climate Fund' which shocked me .
According to the published news, a project has been taken for establishing road connectivity between coastal districts and Patuakhali at around spending Tk 46 crore of climate change trust fund, due to which about 39,000 trees of the coastal trees will be cut.
After listening to the news, I felt woe thinking about the premature death of the trees.
There was survey done in the area due to an unknown reasons despite having the obligation to conduct environmental studies before taking such a project.
The main purpose of climate funding is to improve the environment and ecosystems by adopting various projects to combat adverse effects of climate change and increase adaption and mitigate its harmful effects.
It is universally acknowledged that there is no alternative to the trees to prevent climate disasters.
But in our country, the development of deforesting is going on.
The most terrible thing is that around 5,500 acres of forestland will be threatened by this project.
For this reason, the forest and surrounding environment and ecosystems will collapse.
Various types of wild animals dependent on forests will be in existence and crisis.
Along with it, there will be a huge population dependent on the forest will have a threat to their existence .
Surprisingly, during the project form, this area was not identified as forest land, and despite the objection of the Ministry of Environment and Forest, the Water Development Board (PUBO) has started to implement it!
In the name of development, the government's indifference and silence in such insensitive work questioned their sincerity in preserving the environment.
I do not think there is anywhere else in the world of such a nostalgia to destroy the environment at the cost of saving the environment.
It is not understandable that at this juncture of the climate crisis, how such a stubborn decision was taken by the government in the name of the so-called nomenclature development, standing on the bodies of thousands of trees.
Our position as the most affected risky country in climate change due to the lack of coordination between the ministries of the government, disrespect for the law and the environment always considered as to be worth of money value.
So, our application to the government that the project should be stopped to save 39,000 trees and it should be done by implementing by alternative ways without any loss of environmental environment  .
Market of house rent.
Those who live in a rent house,they also pay the gas, electricity and water bills.
City corporation's holding tax also did not increase.
Then why the house rent has increased twice a year? 
I have heard that there is a law for control the homeowners in the country.
But its application has never been heard.
It seems landlords are the Lord and the tenant resides in their kingdom.
Landlords' behavior: 'No words, rent increases, if you prefer live or go away'.
Politicians always say, 'People are the source of all power'.
In this case landlords are the only people?
They have the power, the tenants have no power.
So the tenants are not the people?
Politicians and business leaders promised to do much for the welfare of the people during the elections.
Fool people believe in the words of politicians like sticky advertising, likely after that they are not being seen.
Members of Parliament make laws for the welfare of the country.
Did they ever think that the how much torture the landlords do on tenants?
Where is the time for them to discuss about this in parliament!
The time a member gets in the parliament, it is only used to uphold the party leader.
The Board of Revenue has been asked to increase the direct tax revenues.
Can income tax department tell how much landlords earn?
Is it necessary to take them under income tax?
If there were effective efforts of the income tax department, then I believe that the landlords' violence against the tenants would be reduced to a little less.
Landlords take rent, but do not give any receipt.
If receipt is given, it also has half the money written on it!
For that, the income tax department should know the rent from each house tenant and then bring the landlords under income tax.
On the one hand, the revenue of the government will increase, while on the other hand, raising the rent unjustifiably and harassment of the tenants will reduce.
Accommodation is the fundamental right of the people.
The government can not provide accommodation for all citizens.
In that case, the responsibility of protecting the tenants from the landlords' oppression must be the responsibility of the state and the government.
The demand for time is to ensure the implementation of renovate rent control laws and earn income from the landlords.
Stagnant DCC
After the split, the activities of the Dhaka City Corporation has become absolutely stagnant.
Without splitting of property,manpower,money and goods between South and North Dhaka city corporation,there is no service ongoing on any service organizations.
Zone offices are not doing any work without cleaning the dirt-rubbish.
Dhaka city, especially in the old Dhaka, all the roads including the lanes are in so bad condition that we have to leave the rickshaw and have to walk to cross all those risky places.
For this the people of old Dhaka are angry.
It is to be noted that the Dhaka City Corporation is loosing its history and tradition by appointing two administrators in both city corporations.
Today is that day when city corporation's zonal office was requested to reconstruct the devastated road they said that the all kind of dumping and reconstruction tasks were suspended for now.
They told the people to contact with the administrator directly for any kind of work, including road reform.
Attention to the concerned ministry for the repair of roads in Dhaka.
Mahbub Uddin Chowdhury
Faridbaug, Gandaria, Dhaka.
Getting up and down in train
I am a regular passenger of the Bangladesh Railway.
The route or path of my journey is Brahmanbaria-Feni-Chittagong and return journey.
There are two doors in each compartment of the railway and can be flown from both sides of the door.
If some of the compartment's doors were for getting up and the other door was fixed for the getting down, then the passengers could have fluctuate properly.
But after the train stopped at the station, it was seen that passengers were getting up and getting down through both two doors.
The passengers become busy getting out of the train before some were leaving the train.
For that, passengers leaving the rain finds it difficult.
Especially in Brahmanbaria railway station, the problem is more acute.
Apart from this, during the passengers getting up and down the pick-pocketers creat crowd and pick taka,mobile and other valuable assets.
Sometimes it is seen that the train attendant does not open both sides of the door or if the car is in the station, there is no attendant in the compartment to open the door.
As a result, passengers have to suffer from many woes.
Many times the passengers do not have to find the carriage recognition symbol, so passengers find it difficult to get into the desired carriage.
It is to be noted that some passengers from Akhaura station are given tickets to Dhaka, but the seats are given from Brahmanbaria Station.
As for this,before the seats become vacant, there is a chaous in the compound due to the passengers lfrom Akhaura station.
For the passage of the problem, there should a specific allocation of seats for the passengers of Akhaura station.
Therefore, I wish for the glance of railway authority should proper steps on getting up in the couch with one door and getting down by another door with the help of attendants.
Environmental pollution by trains
Environmental pollution is a serious problem for any country.
Considering the terrible consequences of environmental pollution, environmental scientists are trying to keep the environment free of pollution.
Government and non-government many programs are also being adopted.
In order to use the healthier toilets without leaving the excrement in the open place, it is implementing various activities aimed at generating public awareness.
Ignoring all the people the atmosphere is being polluted by train regularly.
Because of the use of open toilets in each train, the environment on both sides of the railway line is constantly being polluted.
Diseases are spreading everywhere.
This pollution is indispensable and it is not difficult at all.
Only a little good wish is enough for this.
To take necessary steps in this regard,I am drawing attention of the Honorable Railway Minister, Health Minister and all related about this.
Special interview
DCC has been divided into small political interests
Outgoing Dhaka City Corporation's Mayor Sadek Hossain Khoka was born in Kolkata in 1950, at Kaltabazar.
He passed MA from Dhaka University in 1974.
In the student life he got involved with leftist politics.
He took part in the Liberation War of 1971 as an active freedom fighter.
Later, with the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) politics
He was elected a member of parliament in 1991, 1996 and 2001 parliamentary elections.
Fisheries and Livestock Minister Sadek Hossain Khoka has also served as the Minister.
AKM Zakaria interviewed
Prothom Alo: The government has divided the Dhaka City Corporation.
You are opposed to the politics of the opposition, the government is opposing this initiative for any reason?
Is your party's position or political consideration working in this case?
Sadek Hossain: After being elected the mayor of Dhaka City Corporation, he has served nine and a half years.
As a mayor of Dhaka in this long time, I have always tried to work from the party's standpoint.
There are about 25 Awami League-selected councilors in City Corporation.
They also got help at the time.
We tried to build City Corporation as a common institution.
This is the unique aspect of the local government system.
There was no division between the Dhaka City Corporation Councilors - no matter what the party they were.
Officials and employees were also united.
You will see, when the initiative to share the city corporation is taken, all the councilors, officials and employees of the City Corporation have stood against it.
As a result, there is no scope to see it from the issue of BNP or the political point of view.
In the City Corporation Board meeting, Awami League-backed councilors also oppose the partition of Dhaka.
Prothom Alo: So the government has taken this decision for political reasons?
Sadek Hossain: Of course.
The government has decided to divide Dhaka from the full political point of view.
I would say, in this case the government's narrow viewpoint has worked.
See, this government decides to divide Dhaka, but for no one does not take any position.
Everyone from the country's conscious citizen society to the specialist level has opposed this division of Dhaka.
Those who oppose the government's initiative, they are not politically opposed to the government.
There are many people who have confidence in the government, have support.
I think the decision the government has made is a stubborn decision.
Through this, the government has introduced the smallest.
Prothom Alo: Why did the government go to make such a decision in opposition to everyone?
Sadek Hossain: There was no other way to get me from the mayor's post until the new elections were held in Dhaka City Corporation.
Again the government is not ready to give a new election due to political reasons.
It may be said that the government has taken an irresponsible decision to split Dhaka from small political considerations.
Prothom Alo: The government is saying that Dhaka City Corporation is being divided into Dhaka to increase the quality of citizen services and administrative work.
Sadek Hossain: See, who was Mayor before me, Mohammad Hanif, he was involved in Awami League politics.
He said, there is no alternative to strengthen city corporation to ensure Dhaka city services.
He spoke for the city government.
I worked as the mayor of Dhaka City Corporation for a long time;
I also believe that it is possible to ensure the service of the citizens of Dhaka by a single powerful authority.
There are about 54 institutes that provide services to the city.
Like other countries in the world, these services should be managed under a single authority.
In 2005 the World Bank funded a study.
A recommendation was made in consultation with different groups.
The recommendation was to bring all service agencies of Dhaka under a umbrella.
One of the single centric city corporations was talked about.
It was approved in 2008 during the caretaker government government.
The decision to split Dhaka without doing anything like that is nothing but government stubbornness.
There is no acceptable reason to share Dhaka.
Prothom Alo: What is the reaction of this division of Dhaka City Corporation that you think?
Sadek Hossain: The problem that has been seen in the first place is uncertainty between the officials and employees of the City Corporation.
Do not worry about yourself rather than providing services to the people of the city.
Due to the split in city corporation, government expenditure will increase.
New buildings will be built.
Currently City Corporation has a mechanical division in Sayedabad.
Now after splitting the city corporation, two such categories have to be made.
During the political violence, poor people are being chasied after seeing.
Then they become more poor to because of the suit-bail bond, some become beggars.
The anti-poor law thus enhances poverty.
There is no such law against any class or profession.
The state is standing directly against civil rights of the poor.
In the words we say, the government is for 16 million people
But no government was the government of all people.
There is no proof thatt the state has a responsibility for the floating people.
They are deprived of the rights of the highway.
They are also deported from the right to earn their livelihood independently.
All such deprivation means that the state does not recognize them as its citizens.
Either this state is not theirs, or they are not citizens of this state.
Compared to those good-spoken civilized citizens firstly, their 'non-citizenship' becomes more proven.
In the place of slums, the bridges are built, the sidewalks and the roads are occupied by their cars.
The place that could be used for living by floating workmanship or for livelihood, is used in the interest of the upper class.
But if these 'Mofizs' have not life like human, what is democracy, what is humanity and what is rule of law?
The situation is like the river of Dhaka, chased but the motionless.
It is like a dream: we run but we can not progress in the dream.
Everyone knows what to do.
There is a High Court verdict against slums and eviction of hawkers and rickshaws without alternative settlement.
By not accepting it, the government is creating black laws of poor evacuation.
The business and the rich, the government and the Khas land are not being provided to poor people.
The government and the middle and upper class will have to admit, Dhaka city is also the city of those floating people.
The city will not be able to continue by dragging them.
If millions of people are thought to be non-citizenship, they will also consider the state as a non-state.
And the difference between non-state and non-state is very small but very little.
In Bangladesh, the limited range of anarchy will not hesitate to spread like fires like Egypt or Tunisia.
Take the legal bar immediately
Investment opportunities in Africa's agricultural sector
A coalition of local NGOs (CLNB) organized a seminar meeting on Sunday in the National Press Club on 'Doing Business in Africa for Expansion of Agriculture and Agriculture'.
Commerce Minister Faruk Khan said in his speech as the chief guest, Bangladesh will invest in the non-agricultural land and agricultural based industries of Africa.
Why is not the investment started for so long, that is the question.
Because, there is a huge scope and potential for investing in agriculture in different countries of Africa, as it is known to private sector investors of Bangladesh for a long time, so is the government not unknown to this.
Recently, China and India are investing in African countries, said Commerce Minister.
However, India's investment in African countries is not a very recent phenomenon.
By 2009,India has invested in 80 companies in Africa; Ethiopia, Sudan, Kenya, Madagascar, Senegal and Mozambique about 150 million pounds or 11 thousand 300 million Indian rupees mainly for buying agricultural land.
It is to be noted that on the African continent, the total cultivable agricultural land is about 807 million hectares, of which only 19.87 million hectares are cultivated.
That is, about 60 million hectares of land are uncultivated.
But those lands are quite fertile and relatively cheap.
The large population of China and Indian companies have rushed toward to Africa because of that.
So why are we behind?
Are we sure in our food security?
Is the price of food grains are in purchase limit  in the country?
Does not the people of our country need employment?
The Commerce Minister said that the government of several African countries, including Zambia, Congo and Sudan, offered to offer Bangladesh many facilities.
Then why are we sitting?
Due to the existing foreign exchange control laws, we are deprived of the golden opportunity of investing in the agriculture sector of African countries.
The minister told us that.
So quickly change the law.
The government should take initiative in this regard on priority.
Encouraging entrepreneurs say that if they get the opportunity to invest in those African countries, we will have employment for some 2.5 million people in the initial phase.
And not only in the agriculture sector, Bangladeshi entrepreneurs can invest in the African continent in many sectors, including textiles and ready-made garments.
Therefore, considering the growing population, migrant workers from different countries of the world, recession in the world economy, the unrest in the world food market, etc., it is necessary to quickly eliminate all legal barriers to investment in Africa.
According to the words, the people of Makkah can not perform Hajj.
Myanmar is beside the country, during the whole alliance government,  has been calling for investing in an acre of one acre in annual auction of 10 US dollars.
But I have not seen its implementation till today.
And now, about 5000 miles away in African countries, with investment proposals in agriculture!
All of these proposals, discussions and seminars have been observed, now hope they become real work.
Reflection of time
Fear of the future of Bengalis
On the first day of the new year, I got stuck in human tangle.
I am disturbed, angry because of Dhaka city's every day traffic jam and I dare many people in my mind.
The traffic congestion has now been tolerated to me.
One 10-minute road goes out for an hour.
Sit in the car with anger or read magazines.
One day I finished reading a book in the car.
That day I was stucked in human tangle;
But the reaction was different.
That day I went out with the car, at the end of the day.
Last year I have fallen in traffic jams and human tangle in the streets, even in the morning and noon.
This time I got out in the afternoon.
I thought, the programs that people I have seen in the house on television all day have returned home.
But where is that, that was a horror situation.
Arrived at Farmgate from Asadgate, then the car did not move.
This was not tsunami's surge, but it was like a human surge.
In the past, on the day of listening to Bangabandhu's March 7 speech, on the day of he's return home from Pakistani prisoners I saw this kind of human tide .
But today's street, the streets and parks of Dhaka city and some of the open-air festivals were much more broad and widespread than those.
Thousands of men and women are walking and walking on the streets .
The woman was walking with a child in the lap, the boy was walking with his father.
The couple was walking on the pair, the old man was walking holding the hands of the old lady.
Many people were danceing with flute blowing, playing songs, singing and walking.
Not to be annoyed at the humankind, there was a weird emotional shower has gone through in mind.
Not rickshaws, not human beings, our Bengalis have occupied the road.
In this human tangle, I saw the spread of Bangalism and the bundling waves.
This is the only festival when the Bengali people of all class and all ages  have been encouraged to show their Bengaliism.
Eid for Muslims, Puja for Hindu community, Christians have only Christianity.
Ekushey is for Bengali educated middle class.
Celebration of Independence Day and Victory Day of December 16 is now just formalities.
In contrast to the day that people of the city and villages, all the sections of the society have adopted the same way, it is not just new year's invocation in the day.
The total expansion of the nationalism of the million Bengali people is fully exposed.
Now this has revealed the nature of the non-communalism of the Bengali people who forget about all social positions and other economic problems.
They have expressed about the rebellion of a Bengali nation in 1971.
I did not see this expression being published in the past,  I wrote so much about my passion and feeling in the words of the New Year's dazzling invocation.
Another strange idea came to mind.
The expansion of the expression of Bengaliism in the last two years, is this the reason that the political party of Bangali nationalism has come to power?
It seems to be right in deep of thought.
So there is also the fear that if the unanimous expression will remain unchanged after two and a half years?
This question seems to be remembered when we go back in the past.
After the death of Bangabandhu who introduced Bangali nationalism in a state structure, our Bengaliism were taken away.
The identity of Bengalis was gradually decaying due to the introduction of Bangladeshi cloak.
After long 21 years, in 1996, Bengali nationalism came back with full of discipline through a national election.
It was possible due to the political party of Bangali, the party of established Bangaliism leader Bangabandhu was reinstated in power.
The look of this festival was seen in the human tangle of Baishakh this year.
But this form will not be lost after two and a half years?
I will explain why this misery thinking,in the end.
So much so that I talked about the boom of Bengali nationalism, there are two ideas at the root.
One. For those who have returned to power, we have seen the overflow of Bangaliism in the first day of Boishakh.
If they can not stay in power or can not come back after two and a half years, will we lose Bengaliism again?
As I said earlier, after long time of seventy five Bangaliism was faded.
We were made as Bangladeshis.
However, our highest court said in the amendment-related opinion of the Citizenship Constitution, 'We are Bangladeshi, also we are Bengali again.'
If said 'I am Bengalal too' then it would have been more meaningful.
After all, this year, the people of the country, the people of all castes, nationalities, and non-communalism and  the people having the spirit of liberation war expressed their full Bangaliism, not because of any instruction of anyone.
In the last few years, the Pakistani minded special forces cornered the people of Bangali nationalist culture who have the spirit of liberation war.
It seemed that the intellectuals were fully vocal about the unrestricted demand of the trial of war criminals in changed political situations.
The successors of the '71, the new generation of self-consciousness has emerged for the same reason.
I do not know whether or not the words were able to convey the message to the readers because of much emotions.
It is a matter of fact that when Awami League comes to power, the manifestation of the expression Bengaliism is evident.
Viceserva in English, that is, in the opposite way.
The Awami League government came to power due to the bloom of Bengaliism in the new generation.
But with the belief that they voted in the boat, the next generation has shown full expression of Bengaliism in Baishakh, after two and a half years, will they be able to do it or will?
The question has been made by my television audience and has given the answer.
He also discussed why is this question before upcoming election of two and a half years.  .
The questioner asked, could the Awami League party's government remove the 'bajikar' identity given by Justice Muhammad Habibur Rahman to return to Awami League's past in the past?
Even if not the price of Shaista Khan's time , will they able take the price to a tolerant level like their previous rule f?
What is the situation seemed to be in the government's dingle management?
He asked the question about the future of Bengalis.
My questionar in the talk show told in straight cut that, in the future, with the promise of Bangali nationalism, promise to establish the spirit of the war of liberation, pledging to end the trial of the war criminals , hanging the electricity lines,with the business of the gas cylinders will not be able to cross the electoral system .
If you want to know the reason, think about the past.
If they vote in boat, there will be no Islam, and wife will be divorced or the fear of Indian poker, those who came to power could not able to do revolve the people to forget for a long time.
I am expressing the above statement differently.
Many of my column-readers and talkshows' audience on phonecall, by writing the letter, praising me because I criticize the government .
I do not get self-indulgence in this praise, rather I do not feel good rather it let me think more.
I do not criticize the Awami League or condemn the Awami League, I criticize those who can not or will not try to punish the 'Bajikor' who wear cloak of Awami Leauge, to do the right thing.
I do not want to uproot the tree, just shake it.
One day a woman MP complained, on the way out of my longtime favorite minister Syed Abul Hossain's room, 'Why do you criticize Awami League so strictly?'
I replied in the answer, not criticizing the government, but the party.
The government that discarded the ideology of the party and the leaders of the party, asked to return to their ideological ideology.
Where was I and now where I am.
I was talking about why much praises do not give much satisfaction, but rather disturbed.
After the rigid criticism of the ruling government, the audience of the newspapers and television publications praised my speech, they do not seem to be 'conspirator' or anti-Awami League.
Rather, they seem to understand that they are concerned supporters, grassroots level leaders and well-wisher identities.
They are concerned about whether the power of the war of liberation can come to power again or not.
They are anxious  if the non-communalism, the spirit of liberation war, the spread of the liberation of Bengali nationalism, become a victim like post-seventy period, what will happen?
Whom shall I blame if such accident happens?
Those responsible for protecting these promises will be responsible for their deviations?
They want  answer of these questions to the daughter of Father of the Nation Bangabandhu, who has the responsibility to keep Father's policies and ideals alive.
During his rule, Bangabandhu mourned and said, 'The corrupteds is eating all.'
People say, now the corrupteds are all gobbling.
If you do not stop corruption, then worry about the future of Bengalism will not end.
The form of Bengaliism overflowing in the Paola Baishakh will become faded.
Two and a half years is not a short time, but not many.
Tea-Party
I got tea habit from my mother.
Drink ten to fifteen cups of tea a day.
This is the power of non-stop work.
In my childhood, I used to see my mother, she used to drink tea with a huge bowl.
It will also be very hot again.
She hold it with her Saree's corner and sip it very carefully.
Sprinkled one or two puffs of muri in it.
When there was a shortage of milk at home, mother used to drink tea without milk, but she used to pour ghee in it.
And sometimes I sawe, she is pouring a pinch of salt in tea.
I used to be in all the way.
But most favourite choice was thick tea with cow's milk, floating on top of .
My profession also contributed to the development of habit tea liquor.
While working in charge of duty, it was necessary to stay busy during the night-day work, where tea was the main element of freshness.
The same thing happens in acting and profession.
But after the whirl of the time milk tea, lemon tea, spices tea have now passed and now without milk and sugar tea.
Sometimes ever green tea.
The most disgusting tea is the perfume tea.
In the meantime, I have gained some knowledge about tea.
For example, the tea should be made into boiling water, otherwise tea leaves will not leave its color.
After releasing the leaves in water, it should not be boiled.
And yes, more hot tea can not be drunk, it is harmful for the body.
The real taste of tea will come only in light-hot tea.
And yes, I started drinking color-tea after going in Libya.
They drink without milk..
But very strong.
Drink frequently.
Just as strong, so sweet.
Europeans again like very light tea.
They pour a lot of milk in the tasteless tea.
I do not know what taste they find.
But they are responsible for the condition of today's tea industry.
And the Chinese who has invented tea, they do not get near the black tea like us.
They drink green tea.
That's their only drink throughout the day.
Flusk will be filled for a day-long near their hand.
Sip one or two, immediately after a while fresh in it.
Their skin's smoothness reason is this green tea.
This tea is filled with antioxidants.
Do you know the birth history of tea?
Still let me say a little.
An emperor of China, his name was Shen Nung.
That is the matter of 2737 BCE
He was not just emperor, he was a scientist.
His research continued with the various Herbal issues.
He discovered that drinking water must be boiled to drink.
People may be free of disease.
Ordered the tenants.
He started to practice himself.
Once upon a time,he went out in a journey with the military-feudal, the luggage.
In the deep forests, they camped for the night.
For the use of the Emperor, the servant started heating up water in a huge container , under the open sky.
It was seen that boiling water had red color.
The fuss has started
How is it possible?
Emperor noticed that some leaves were lying in the water.
Then he noticed that around there was a 20-25 feet tall tree.
It leaves were in this water.
Everyone backed off when he told his man to taste it.
Emperor then drank the drink himself.
Freshness came in his body.
Since then, at the order of his , the chinese started to drink, he used to do himself.
The name of this tree is called Camellia after the name of a botanists named Camille.
Later, the Chinese word 'Sinesis' was added to this.
The name was Kamelia Sinesis.
The flowers are white in color.
Spread excellent fragrances.
It is noteworthy that we make short that twenty-thirty feet to collected our addiction leaves.
Tea once came from China with the help of Buddist Manga, in Japan.
Then spread to the whole world.
Andolandas first came to tea business.
Then British.
Britain exported tea to American colonies, and Britain's pound hills grew.
Unreasonable Britain put tax on tea in America's colony in 1773 due to excessive interest.
In protest against this, the residents of Boston settled on the East India Company's ship and grabbed the beetle and threw it into the water of the port.
Sea water became tea.
It is famous for the world's famous T-Party.
From here on,everyone believes that the war of American independence started.
So, seeing that tea is not only fresh drinking, but also powerful controllers in different ways.
Libyan people drowning in tea addiction have come forward for their independence .
And in our country, I saw a few days ago that the cold war of TIB and the judiciary's is resolved, only through T-Party.
Tea is our national manufactured export products.
Why not use it to solve difficult national problems, welfare?
For this tea-Party with his opposition is needed from the government.
There is no 'summon', because tea can resolve temporary tension also.
How dreadful will pass the passenger?
Launch accident in Meghna
On Wednesday night, the accident in the river Meghna of Brahmanbaria's Sarail can not be identified as a mere accident .
There was no storm and rain at that time, so the responsibility can not be imposed on nature .
The 30-year-old launch named MV Bipasha, was not supposed to transport more passengers than limit that night.
Even after that it is still operating, which consequences of accidents and death of many people
33 bodies have been recovered from the accident on Thursday and Friday.
In the area of ​​Bhairab, the freight trawler that sank, it collided with the launch that lead to accident and was reported as the information by the Sea Transport Department and BIWTA on immediate investigation.
Their claim, the accident occurred due to the driver's mistake.
After the colliding with the trawler , the accident would have been avoided if the launch stopped.
But BIWTA's responsibility to keep track of the accident .
The marking theft is not acceptable.
There are questions about the launch certificates.
BIWTA authorities said in last year March  to take the launch in Dockyard but the owner did not do it.
According to the rules, there must be 35 survival buoys, four fire extinguishers and two sandal boxes, but most of them were not there as per news published in the newspaper.
Then the situation indicates, the accident was man-made and the owner of the launch, the driver and the BIWTA-no one can avoid its liabilities.
Shipping Minister told the families of the deceased to give 30 thousand taka.
Is the value of life only 30 thousand taka?
To make compensation for the victims and the injured, the Launch owners must be compelled.
The life of ordinary people in the country is so insignificant that in  paths, in  river, on road they have to live in disadvantage.
One BIWTA official said the launch was not supposed to run on this route during the night.
How did they operate?
In our country irregularities become the rule.
This can not be allowed to continue.
After an accident, the authorities run for a while, and then everything is continued as usual.
If the previous recommendations were implemented to prevent launch accidents, the owner and driver of MV Bipasha could not show so much arbitrariness.
Not only showing off to the people,  the launch accident will have to be fair and neutral.
It has been seen in the past that the inquiry committee was formed but its report did not see the face of light.
Now hope that it will not be repeated.
To prevent this kind of accident,along with consciousness of related people there must be punishment for the against those guilty people.
"... after some days the authorities show concerne ... .." The same thing applies to journalists.
If any incident happens, then some emotional reports will be reported, and that's it.
We did not see any newspaper creating public opinion against such arbitrary murder.
Why?
There must file a murder case against launch owner's and their godfather shipping Minister will have to  .
The judges of the court come from heaven to judge and then decide to go back to heaven, without just contempt of court but they have no interest in any other worldly matters.
So the hope of Suomoto case is very good.
There are so many cases in the country, but a succession killing of Launch passenger case has not happened yet today.
Shiva's song
Chair market
For the past twenty years, there are two types of government in Bangladesh: one. Care taker, which runs the country for some time before the election;
And two. Chair taker, which takes chair through selection and runs roughly in the country.
The two types of government were going on with great difficult, but after one-eleven the third kind of government came to light, which looked at the chair and took care of the chair without care-fair.
This government can be called share taker, which is shared the chair means shared between themselves.
This share was between the army and the non-military rulers, many of whom were unknown
But after sharing in the chair, once they had to leave their power in the hands of new chair taker.
One or two had to flee awy.
The suffering is of course only for the chair.
The chair's enjoyment is never long lasting, although they do not remember the fact that when they are sitting on a chair.
At the end of the sufferings that can not bring luck too.
Whether the next election will be under a care taker government, whether it will be fair or unfettered for democracy, the debate continues.
We will not go to that debate, because our concerns are related to other issues, that is, the story of a new group of share taker.
A major crash occurred in the stock market of the country a few months ago, whose blow devastated many small investors.
Their number was three million.
I have heard more than 20 thousand crore rupees have been lost from the share market.
A few dozen Godfathers shared the spoils of money among themselves.
The huge shares of the shareholders, which went to the hand of those, are the neo-share takers.
A small shopkeeper from Pubail or a pion of school in Narail invested the savings of life in the stock market, without knowing the rules and norms.
The share takers overturned the money and made the pion-shopkeeper a constant debtor.
Why did they invest like fools, knowing the downside, appointed Godfathers as the custodian of fortune?
That's why they have heard a lot of rebuke.
But there was no rebuke for the share takers, but only reward.
In a tainted investigation report, however, several reasons have been found to be investigating the stock market disaster, some names have come, but it is only a report, and it is increasing the pain of unfortunate investors;
As Godfathers are out of reach.
Writing in the newspapers, there will be nothing to do with the heroes behind the share scam.
How does the scandal have hero, without asking the question, we have no choice but to accept this possibility.
The protagonist, the controller, too.
Some defenders have appeared as the king and spoiler of the share market , we heard the news night and day.
But the question is: why nothing will happen to these heroes , why something that would happen,  would happen to the fools like stupid-shopkeepers ?
Finding answers to this question , the experts of the capital market, thinkers of civil society, the media speaker and (this hapless) columnists have come to the field.
But borrowed the title of a poem from Asad Chowdhury , saying, "The mountain on the north."
To top the mountain, the most experienced expert will fall.
But I got an answer, which can be topped as it is equal to a mound and it is: Chair Market.
Holding the chair of power is now less than three years matter, and this chair is so valuable that a huge (or bigger) fund to keep it , just like to recover it a huge fund is needed..
Besides, is there only one chair?
Not thousands of chairs?
Many chairman  lose chair in power change.
A VC of a university lose chair at nine in the night;
Another VC sit a chair on the nine and a half minutes.
One party is losing the chair on the one hand, on the other hand, the other party is sit on chairs.
A huge market of chairs is now in Bangladesh.
The rise and fall of this market is similar to the share market.
A portion of the share taker's fund has gone to the chair market.
For this reason they are safe.
They are the best investors.
Useful!
All of us should now invest in the chair market.
If there is at least a change in chair, if your party owns the chair or if you do not lose the chair, this investment can be converted into various appointments.
Book and Book Copyright Day
The library will be established in every area.
The day today is the UNESCO International Book and Copyright Day.
Since 1996 UNESCO, one of the UN agencies, that work on the cultural heritage of the whole world, has announced the date of birth and death of several prominent creators, including Shakespeare, as special day.
In this day the people of the whole world are encouraged to read and teach to read another.
As they read, they learn to discover the deathless journey of joy
The main contributor or protagonist of this adventure is the author.
He plays an extraordinary role in the reader's taste, feeling, thinking and intellect.
They create an era in their hand.
Through the ages, they show the path to the readers in the light and darkness.
Towards the upliftment of building society, dedicating himself to his own country and time.
On the other hand, the importance of the reader to give a full-fledged form of swelling-up to the reader's importance is immense.
Just like a wooden stick can light up millions of millions of candles, one true wise reader can also take his neighbor, neighbor, society and country with his tastes, wisdom and conviction in the light of the world.
He can create the dream of the enlightened people's the world of reality.
Uninterrupted reading habit of textbooks makes a reader one day a creative-reader.
He publishes his self-taught knowledge through the new book, and benefits the society.
Help the state to come out of hostile situation.
In our many years of our national life, we have remembered those nationally educated wise readers whose contributions have long remembered the nation with respect.
These people, who are far larger than an institutional organization, work themselves as a single organization.
It is important to remember that the number of this kind of readers is tiny in all the societies.
The responsibility of the state to come forward with building favorable environment and motivational activities of creating that kind of  reader.
Once upon a time, in many places in the city and villages,for the studets of school-college, there was a library  which is built in every local area.
Today, the World Literature Center is trying to do the work on the national level, once the library  has been built in every local area , has done that with limited capability.
Although, despite the huge economic development of present-day Bangladesh, compared to forty years ago, we have now moved away from the tradition of arranging a small classroom or arrangement of the library.
As a result, in the pursuit of creativity, the practice of creativity  has been reduced deeply.
We are becoming dependent on the government or the non-governmental organization or on the other.
In the changed circumstances, the good government has realized this as a the matter of deep conviction.
As a result, efforts are being made sincerely to extend the public library not only in the capital or district town, but also in the upazilas and the extent of the union .
Through the Ministry of Culture, initiatives have been taken to set up a library with children's books in every primary school of the country.
With today's Book Day, UNESCO has glorified human dignity of creativity by adding copyright.
Today, creative people are constantly deprived of their legitimate financial and moral rights at home and abroad.
The main reason for this deprivation is lack of collective courage and the unconsciousness of their rights.
The scar of piracy has brought us down to the deep squash.
Due to having of adequate low price books and libraries than the demand, many unwilling readers are moving like ostrich to piracy hat!
To get rid of this negative situation, there is no alternative to library development by the writers, readers and union center of writers.
Along with the establishment of the library, skilled manpower will also be created in the knowledge related to modern library management.
It is only possible to discover the true image of the oldest old world of knowledge, information and technology-based civilization.
Let's go ahead with that goal.
Advance Alert is the Protection
Diarrhea is spreading
Contaminated water and hot weather - Due to the combination of two of these every year, diarrhea conditions deteriorate.
In the last few days, the number of diarrhea sufferers increased in the capital
Every day only the International Diarrheal Disease Research Center (ICDDR) in Bangladesh has to accept about 500 patients which indicates the condition of being admitted as a deterioration.
Experts say the situation may be further deteriorating in the next few days.
Due to pollution of water and food is basically responsible for diarrhea.
As a result, if you can take care of these two cases, you may reduce the risk of getting diarrhea.
Before eating wash hands, make sure to drink pure water, and not eating rotten and unhygienic food - If you become aware of these few things, then the risk of diarrhea is greatly reduced.
There are questions about the quality of water supplied by WASA in Dhaka city.
Due to faulty supply lines, external pollutants enter the WASA line.
WASA is accused of supplying dirty and smelly water to different parts of Dhaka city.
This water problem is directly related to diarrhea.
So, in this situation, we should take initiative to drink water after boiling  at any cost.
Alternatively, it is advisable from ICDDRB to clean water with Fitkiri or to quench the water in clean clothes .
The issue of caution in eating is also very important.
It should be sure that the food that is being eaten is not rotten for some reason.
The food that is sold in the streets of our country, most of them are not standard.
As it is kept open for sale, it is more likely to become contaminated by dust.
It is important to avoid such foods.
Children are more infected with diarrhea, so during this time they need special caution.
If diarrhea, its treatment method is not very difficult.
After diagnosis of diarrhea, it is possible to adjust the situation in most cases when food saline is given.
There is no alternative to take the patient to the hospital without taking any action without hesitation.
But, becoming carefull about some things, reduce the fear of diarrhea greatly, so we want to emphasize more on advance alert.
Women's development policy
Male child and Female child
Prior to the last general election, Awami League had pledged in its election manifesto, if the party come to power, would reinstate the women's development policy in 1997.
With the other allies of the Grand Alliance, the Awami League took the government's responsibility by winning a huge victory in the elections.
After two years and two months, they announced the Women's Development Policy 2011 in March.
It appears that, in this new policy, one of the most important things of the year 1997 Women's Development Policy was avoided.
In that policy, these were supposed to be included 'the opportunity for women, the succession of property, and women's rights in the field of rights and equal opportunities'.
In the newly declared narrative, it has been said about equality of women in different areas, but not the equality of inheritance of property is mentioned.
So many people say that Awami League government has not fulfilled one of its election promises.
Women's rights leader Hamida Hossain wrote a clear article on the matter in the Prothom Alo.
On Tuesday, a former adviser to the caretaker government, Sultana Kamal also made similar comments on a discussion on the implementation of the women's rights organized by women's rights organization Women for Women.
He said that the Awami League will reinstate the women's policy of 1997 - people voted with confidence in this election pledge.
But now the government's voice declines with narenity.
'The government is a defensive graciously', that means behaving defensive.
She further commented that there is no need to make religion based politics of the government.
She probably said, there is no need to do religion based politics by Awami League's .
But the real mockery for the party is that they have to fall in offense in context of religion.
We can see that it goes back to the seventy-two Constitution.
There is a contradictory patchwork in view of religion.
This government has been bilateral about the issue of women.
Bangladesh has signed the CDO without excluding two categories.
The pressure of this international forum is that Bangladesh should obey their provisions.
In all cases, women and men are asked to ensure equal rights, because of that.
But Awami League is a public-based political party, people's support is their main strength.
They do not want to do that, so that public support is reduced.
Therefore, in the case of new hereditary rights of women, equal right of men and women was not mentioned.
However, some Islamist political parties and groups are protesting strongly against what is not in this woman's policy, threatening the country to inactive and giving various threats.
They are campaigning that the government has made anti-Qur'an policy.
Many people are confused with their campaign.
State Minister for Women and Children Affairs, Shirin Sharmin Chowdhury, spoke as the chief guest on the day-long discussion of Women for Women.
In protest against Sultana Kamal's complaint, she said that the government is in no way weak in the national women's development policy.
Various explanations are given to remove the smoke that is created without seeing what is in the principle.
It is not the government's weakness.
We have noticed that the Prime Minister himself had to take part in interpretation about the women's policy.
But what is the explanation given by the government to the CDO committee is also a big question.
So much so that the government has said: We are 'considering' the matter, and 'are actively considering.'
Politics will be going on for a few more days about this matter.
Opposition parties are not able to find any issue, which might think of heating the ground.
Politics should not be made about the question of equality of women.
Half of the population is female;
There is no effort to know and understand what they think about their rights, what they want, what they do not want.
One side thinks that what girls  want, what they do not want is not an issue.
This is the way in which it is said in the religion, the inherited property should be shared by that system.
And in this discussion there are only Muslim women.
There are other religious women in this country also who have the rights to question about their rights, who are the citizens of this country - these are the truths that everyone has forgotten.
It is natural for a modern democratic state to express the state's position on the basis of religion, color, anthropological identities of all women in all spheres of life. If the shortage of this feeling is manifested in society, the nature of that society is Tribal.
We may still be at the first stage of civilization.
But Tribal society does not even stand in one place.
Regardless of the rules, the society progressed through the gradual transformation of customs.
The outlook of different societies about boys and girls have changed a lot.
Once the birth of a girl was unwanted;
In some societies, they were buried alive shortly after their birth.
But now, such a thing can not be imagined.
We had a time in our society when many parents did not send girls to school.
Boys will study,they will do job and earning, girld will be confined in looking after their child and in kitchen- this view has been changed a lot.
Girls' talent is not less than boys, it is being found in education, science-technology, research, business, business and management.
In the profession of doctors, teachers, etc., girls are doing better than boys - there is also information about this in lot of research.
These evolution of society's approach towards women is going on with the normal way of social development.
And this process will always be in motion.
Talking to some women of different ages about the property inheritence of father.
Someone said, he wants equal share of brother.
Someone said, he will give his share to the brother.
Someone said, having equal share would not have been bad, but if the rules are not there, then what else to do?
Someone said that she should have get half of his brother;
But she was also deprived of it.
But she did not get the motivation to go to court.
I know of some of the families where the brothers have shared the parents' property in equal shares.
If the father, or the mother determines that he will divide his property equally between the boy and the girl, and if the brothers decide, the share of the mother and father's property will be shared equally, he will give his sister as much he get - what is the problem.
Our ideology should be that of all families, who thus created equality between boys and girls.
These families show the way to create a happy, beautiful, fondry society through creating overall equality between men and women.
In relation to establishing equitable rights of children and daughters in the inheritance property of sharing, the people of the government, the government party and all the alliance partners of the grand alliance, who are divided for religious reasons, can join their family in the context of gender equality.
Prime Minister and his cabinet members should come forward first.
In addition to all organizations and all progressive civil society organizations, every family, if they commit that they will divide all the property between their children and daughters in equal proportion, and in reality they do not only in the literal sense but in the real life, the work of establishing equal rights of men becomes very much.
Easter
Christ's Cross, His Resurrection
Easter came again after year , the resurrection day of Jesus Christ
Like other countries of the world, people of the Christian community of Bangladesh are also celebrating this day with  worship, kirtan and songs.
Today's song, 'What great joy is there, what a joy for Jesus' rise!
Sin is dark, ending in the end of Kanisha. '
At the center of Christian faith there is God's love for humans.
The holy love of christ has been fully published with the crucification
The Christ gave his sinless life to the cross and opened the way for people to be saved from sin.
In the new gospel of the New Testament, Jesus Christ's death was described as the most important of all the four Gospels.
At that time the Romans executed the abusive criminal on the cross.
In the plot of the Jewish religious leaders, the Roman authorities crucified Jesus after deceitious judgmenet.
Christ embraced the demonic death.
All of his works will be seen in spiritual sense.
Jesus Christ came to earth just for eradicating human sin.
His life was ransom for our sins.
The holiness and grace of God are final.
The significance of the crucification of Christ has elaborated in details on death oby St. Matthew, Mark, Luke and John's writings.
Matthew used 33 percent of his gospel, about the last days of Jesus' life, and Mark used 37, Luke 25, and John 42 percent.
There are many prophecies about the death of Christ in the Old Testament;
In the new statement, 175 of these are direct statements.
The cruel death of Christ in the place of Golgotha ​​or Calvary was certainly a cursed death.
As it is said in the Bible, 'The person who is hanged on a tree (that is, on the cross), is cursed by God' (Second statement 21:23).
The cursed penance is for the sake of the removing sin of Christianity.
The cross reminds us of the love, grace and forgiveness of the holy God for the people.
So Christ's death is not a normal death.
For the sins of a man, as a kind of God's Lamb he was killed , he took the penalty of sin.
In this way, His holiness and righteousness have been manifested and on the other his love for mankind has been revealed.
Human thinking and godly thoughts are not the same;
God works past the human mind
Through the prophet Jesus, God said, 'My all determinations and your determinations are not one, and all your ways and my ways are not the same.'
Or the Christian preacher Paul said, 'Because the foolishness of God is more knowledgeable than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.'
God's power and wisdom have been revealed on the cross of Christ.
People can not be relieved of their knowledge, intelligence, innovative power, technique, subordination of sin through their own religion.
If that were possible, then it would not have been the condition of mankind in our old world now.
Believing in Christ's holy life, and restoring his teachings, God's arrangement for removing our sins and transgressions.
Christ's apparent surrender to the darkness of human envy and unrighteousness, but not all is finished.
The darkness of evil power could not be extinguished forever in the light of the astrologer Christ.
So God raised his Son from the dead through the power of the Holy Spirit.
Turning the key, Shimu started the car with first gear.
Carrying carefully with the accustomed, hands-on steering, she pulled off the car on the road of busy Dhaka in the morning
Office of 'Care Bangladesh' is in the car.
She started for the destination with him with the car.
I was talking about Farzana Shimu, who is working as a driver in a private company Care Bangladesh.
Since 2005, she has been appointed as a permanent driver of Carriage in Bangladesh.
On the way with Shimu, I was accounted with her diary and many years of driving career of five years.
Shimu is holding the steering wheel of the house as well as the steering wheel of office's car.
Her happy family consists of hazaribagh businessman husband Rabiul Sheikh and two-and-a-half year old daughter Ohiiake .
The day of her begins at 5:30 in the morning.
Prepare breakfast and lunch,does the work of the family then she leaves at around seven in the morning for the workplace.
Reaching the Care Bangladesh Transport department , she punches her car because of attendance.
According to the duty, she washes the car after getting the keys to the car.
Under her responsibilities it falls upon her to monitor car status, papers, oil levels etc.
Then she gets out according to the duty to the destination for each day.
In the end, the cars and keys are submitted to the office.
Her duty time is from half past 8 in the morning to half past 6 in the evening
However, some days if there is duty to lift and drop off the officers from the house or if she would have to go outside dhaka, she would have to come in the morning.
It becomes late night to return on those days.
Back to home,she starts the rest of the work, night cooking, etc.
Shimu manages time-management for the sake of equality between family and profession.
On Friday, all the washing and on Saturday's cooking keep a little ahead for the week.
Her husband helps her a lot in the family work.
It is easy to give time in this job for Shimu in the morning and evening, because the husband has this respect and support for her profession, she said.
She has crossed 600 km distance with her car on highway
She has drove Pickup, microbus, and more.
And on the journey, any situation has been brought down on the cold head, present intelligence and personality.
Seeing the female driver the bus or truck helper on the highway said to the driver, 'Master, the lady next door.'
And on the other hand, the drivers wanted to push their car in any way and never giva a side.
The drivers on the street,  said, 'Maiyapha Aiza steering?'
She has smiled on them that profession is profession, there is no difference between boys and girls.
It works with her good behavior.
After that if they met with her they would say, 'Ustad, Assalamu Alaikum!'
Laughing, she said, "Sometimes the police stopped the car and saw me in the driving seat and asked," Who is the driver?
Where is he"?'
However, her male colleagues never saw them as a separate women.
She said, 'When I drive the car, I myself consider a driver only.
I just keep in mind that, the passenger has to be safely reached.
I do not quarrel with other drivers on the street neither abuse.
If I keep myself right then another girl can be very encouraging in this profession  '
Shimu who devoted herself to the responsibility drove car even seven months of pregnancy.
She said, "At that time once the wheel was leaked on the street.
It seemed that baby was getting closer to the throat while bend down to open the tyre .
Still not afraid
I quietly laid down and fixed the wheel.
So far, the female drivers are working only in the institutions,  many people do not agree to give jobs to the girls as the driver of the home.
My husband is proud of her as a working woman.
The trouble is that she can not give time to her child due to the profession,she left him for five days a week with the sister.
Jahanara Imam's younger son
Jurwa, Jahanara Begum, Jahanara Imam and Shahid's mother names are different, but the person is one.
Mother of Rumi-Jamir, wife of Imam Sharif Imam,  Shaheed Janani Jahanara  remained immortal in the heart of the people of Bangladesh.
I have been in America since 1974.
From 1974 to 1994-twenty years, I have only three times in Bangladesh.
There are many reasons behind so less coming in the country.
The main reason is that, at that time, mother had to come to America every year for treatment.
She is seen here with me every year, there was no need to go to Dhaka.
Since birth to 1971-childhood has been fantastic.
Parents were strict.
But there were opportunities to discuss what we did not agree with them.
They listened to what was important to us, sometimes even changing their decisions.
Even if they did not change, the whole thing seemed fair to us.
In this way the words of discipline and hope in our family were told.
It is a bright example in the writing of  'Ekattorer dingulu' by my mother.
The brother says that his conscience will not forgive him, if he does not join the war.
That's how the parents were convinced.
Before December 16, 1971, mother was only for me and my brother.
On December 16, my monopoly rights on mother had passed away.
Brother's excellent friends and colleagues started calling her 'Amma'.
She accepted them as her own.
I got full of brothers and sisters in the house.
I have not seen mothers' change from 1974 to 1984.
I was not a witness of how she become from an ordinary Bangladeshi citizen to Shahid Janani.
I used to hear about the events of 1971 and the killing of the killer-brokerage committee.
But I did not have any idea about the hope and lighthouse of the hope of the people of Bangladesh.
On 5 July 1994, I returned to my country with mother's dead body.
What I had seen in the next five weeks was the past of my imagination.
I was overwhelmed with the reverence, love and respect of people towards her.
I was surprised to see such feelings for me.
I did not know what to say.
Every day of life I tried to understand what was in mother, which had shaken the people of this country?
How could she bring different political parties under the same banner?
Lastly, she used to understand that every man should be respected as a person, everyone is respected as a man.
And in this way I want to spend the rest of my life with this feeling, I am not above the people around me.
Translation: Ruhina Taskin
Sufia Kamal's eldest son
When I remember my mother, I see mother in the pre and post six years of Bangladesh's independence.
Nevertheless my mother was one of the family members in my eyes.
Like every family  people's happiness and sorrow, it was as well as also in our family.
Talking about my mother means talking about our family.
There father Kamaluddin Khan had an outstanding contribution.
You know, father was a government employee.
He was also well-versed in studies.
He was amongst one or two bangali muslim postgraduate students of the eary time of phyics department in Dhaka University.
Mother's role in different movements during the Pakistan period.
As a government servant, the father would have to be accountable for that.
Dad used to say to them, 'I am doing my job.
I do not know what she's doing. '
Father kept  mothers' poems consistently and used to do all the work of translation in English.
Let me tell about my mother.
Other people returning home on the street in Ayyub's anti-Ayub movement
She would inquire everyone.
She used to say, 'Did you give him tea?
Did you give him food?
She used to become an ordinary mother at home and became a common mother.
One event
I was going to Munshiganj after the Eid of sacrifice.
I have repeatedly said that no food should be kept for me.
Returned to home, table full of meals.
That table was huge.
I became angry with my mother.
Mother became upset
She said, 'I have not eaten for myself, and now you are angry.'
At the time of Eid, the brothers and sisters and the workers' clothes' were made by the mother herself.
Actually, we would not have wanted to wear any other dress except the clothes made by mother for Eid.
Occasionally we used to find the defect of the dress.
I insisted,'This is not '
The mother would say, 'Why do not you do with the tailors?'
How do I say that, I do not have the desire to wear clothes from tailors during Eid.
Which is made by mother, my happiness is wearing that 
On mother's birth or death anniversary many writings are printed in newspapers, there are many types of events, but how many recite the poems of my mother?
The big identity of Sufia kamal is that she was a poet.
Discussion about her without that!
A well-known, popular reciter came in a few years ago on Mother's Birthday in a domestic ceremony to remember her.
Then search for the mother's poetry book started.
Lulu or Tulu (Sultana Kamal and Saida Kamal) brought a book of mother.
After reading a few moments he recited mother's poetry.
I think mother should be recognized as a mother.
The mother was aware of all the different experiments about the science and spirit of Bangla literature in the thirty-fourty-fiftith decades of the last century.
Still,inspired from Rabindranath-Nazrul she created a distinct trend by new origin.
Mother ever wrote a poem on request, but there was no less poetic quality.
Her poetic talent  impressed me.
Come back to personal words.
After partition, when we came to Dhaka from Kolkata, let's talk about one story of that time.
At that time Dhaka city suddenly grew up.
There are not enough homes to rent as per demand.
So we had stay in different relatives homes for several months.
Father felt a little uncomfortable with it.
After a lot of effort, a house was reported near Kamruunnessa School.
The house was the villa of Begum Akhtar Banu, sister of Nawab Salimullah.
On the other side of the four walls of this house on 10-12 bighas of land which name was Tarabagh,there were some rare trees of Ashok flower, Kadam, Katham, Nagakeshar, Whiteberry, Sataparni
Three ponds, three canals for adding three ponds, two bridges in front of it, and a small nababi building built by Begum Akhtar Banu.
Fountain in front of it.
The place for different flower careers.
The ownership of the house was changed twice or thrice in the age group of 20-25 years before the partition of India.
And homeowners at different times, they have built some small and big houses between the trees and near ponds, according to their needs and preferences.
There was no electricity and no well water in the house.
Till 1947-48 the gardens were without care, but the ponds were really good.
The house that we were about to take in this Tarbag, the previous lodger was unable to leave the house due to the difficulties .
So he had to got to a nearby house instead of that house.
It was a  tall house with the tin roof.
Entering the house for first time, mother's sigh and helplessness of father's emereged in the face  , I can not forget even now in this age.
Although mom adapted very quickly.
Washing dishes was done near the pond of three ghats which was hand close to our home although washing clothes was done in different ghats.
The bath was done here.
Other women bath in the pond at noon.
Mother freely used to go to bath with them.
The mother was excited to see the gourd spinach in pond .
Said, 'are not those gourd spinach?'
Others wonder, 'You know the gourd spinach?'
Brought the spinach home and cooked it.
In the rainy season, she cooked hilsa with Koloi spinach.
Leaving the western civilization of 48' british empire's second state Kolkata's Parkcircus, we learned how to swim in this house from our mother.
Learned the names of fruit trees.
Learned the names of birds of different types.
Learned the name of various small fish in the pond.
Realized the new moon-full moon.
Through the gap of the trees, in the vast sky of the sky, Father taught us to recognize the stars.
Taught the difference between planet and stars .
We came from Kolkata and found an environment of a very beautiful village.
Mother went to whether home or abroad, the cookie that she saw, learned the technique.
She was very interested in the new cooking.
By the way, the girls from her family like  did not go too much in the kitchen.
Their job was to design, sewing.
Learning how to cook was only to understand if cook was working properly.
But my mother learned to cook and did it.
She tried to feed us different types of food.
Whether those are the food of rural laborers or the conventions of amateur tables.
When we got up at the scheduled house, our furniture was scarce enough.
New purchases were not been done.
After being well-groomed and stabilized,  mother brought out her violin.
After all the work, at some time, sitting alone mother would have been singing the tunes of violin at night.
Dad used to tell us, 'Tuning with violin is not an easy job.
But how do your mother easily tune up?
And if she would come this side ... '
Dad used to help many.
As a result, our family was very well-off, it can not be said.
Parents 
They brought good books for us.
We all siblings studied in good school and college.
It was not always possible to cook mother's favorite food for not being well-off .
Mother accepted it.
Nevertheless, Father had tried to run the family better.
We came to Dhanmondi's present house in 1960-61.
Even in the road of Dhanmondi before 20 years, the apartments were not built nowwhere .
Theere were a few small beautiful houses .
Mother's birthday was a few days later the time I am talking about.
The visitors had come to our house day and night since then.
Met our mother and then met with a prominent sculptor who was our our neighbors.
At that time a reputed Indian scholar came to visit the house of the sculptor and lover.
He was a simple-minded person.
Visiting him after visiting our house by people regularly ,it might had disturbed his rest time.
Once I got in front of him, he said, 'Your mother's birthday is still very late-why are so many people coming to him?'
I was a little hesitant in the question.
I've been seeing it all the time.
I hesitated and said, 'Shee has been doing literary pursuits for a long time, she has taken active part in various movements of the ideals in the same way.
It does not bother her to associate with younger or senior people, that is why everyone loves her. '
'Only that's why!'
There is a doubt in his voice, 'There is no purpose, there is no hope of getting anything, only due to love, I do not remember seeing so many people being like this.'
When we thought about it, it seems that at the root of selfless love for the mother, there is in the heart of her selfless devotion to her ideals.
She never gave anybody back in the name of any struggle for establishing ideology even in her 70 years out of 90 years of lifespan, till her death even in weakness.
After the partition of India, the new 'Asha' from Calcutta came to Pakistan and mixed with some brave leaders of Dhaka,to stronger relations between Muslim-non-Muslim .
In the development of Bengali-non-Bengali relations, because of believing in communal harmony,she also always supported even in the open and unpopular opposition.
The new hope came in the course of a gradual decline in Pakistan's hopelessness, and again in the struggle to establish social and cultural rights.
Everyone wanter to my mother on the first row who had elite but amazing personality and personally devouted to religion but free of narrowness.
To talk about my mother,story of my brothers and sisters also have to be said.
My younger brother Sajed Kamal has been in Boston since early sixties.
But every year he visits the country regularly and meets everyone.
He outlined the whole Sufia Kamal story from Bangla Academy.
He intended to publish different books of mother.
Lulu (Sultana Kamal) always kept her mother's work neat.
Whenever there was a speech,or where the meetings, where to read poetry, keep them down.
All of the institutionalities were in control of Lulu.
Mother would have told her what to bring from the market, but accounting was done by father and Lulu.
Tulu was a bachelor in Fine Arts.
But there were so many guests in the house that she had to spend a lot of time looking after them.
Although she was a favourite student to Kibria Sir, but Tulu could not engage herself in painting for many days.
If I write differently about mother, then I can write many things.
I think those who are behind a person to grow up, they are not taken care of.
No  people can often reach specific places without the help of people beside him.
Many people came to meet her during his illness.
I have interrupted occasionally.
Many people did not want to understand that matters related to mother's medicine, resting, etc. were also important.
Many came with the demand of her son but did not want to do the duty of the son.
Some of them said, 'Sufia Kamal's eldest son did not let us meet his mother.'
But they did not want to understand mother's illness.
It was very important for mother to rest.
Because of the incoming-outgoing of the well-wishers, mother never got a break.
It still saddens me.
The aforementioned Jahid Reza Nur.
My mother is an ideal to me even today.
Today she is not here, but her memories are involved in our entire family today.
Mother struggled very much.
Had to go to jail.
Has spent a great time of life here and there in secret.
Yet she did not break, and did not deviate from the ideal
My mother was the hero of infinite courage.
There was a poverty in ours.
But mother did not let us understand that poverty.
Father Ramen Mitra was then the Holetimer of the undivided Communist Party.
Mother ,Ila mitro was a worker of Communist Party also.
In the meantime, the mother would have to cope with the family.
Once upon a time, mother carried out tuition to run the family.
We never understood the poverty in family.
We grew up eating normal rice-dal.
Mother did not devout herself to the richness any time.
As a normal housewife, she has spent the whole life.
It is astonishing to think today that the mother was a member of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly (MLA) from 1962 to 1977, but did her own work in her own home.
To cooking to clean the house, market everything was done by mother.
Again,she looked after me also.
Today it is really just like a dream to me.
The truth is, when I grew up knowing my mother, then I was filled with pride knowing that I am the only child of such a big woman!
This birth is my perfect birth.
I am happy to be the son of this mother.
Mother was a Leader of Tebhaga Movement.
When she was a student of Bethune School and College in Calcutta, she was a handsome athlete.
An accomplished student.
My father was a child of a landlord of Bangladesh who was married to this mother.
Father Ramen Mitra's house was in Nawabganj in Rajshahi of Bangladesh.
My grandfathers were landlords.
When my mother came to Calcutta after marriage,  none of my father's house realized that she would be able to adapt to the village's environment.
Mother really adapted.
Not only that, but also gave herself away in Tebhaga movement.
And behind this, my grandmother Vishwaimaya Mitra gave her a helping hand.
What is true that, I saw my mother first in my five and a half years of age.
When I was eight months old, my mother was forced to go in hideout for political reasons.
And my grandmother raised me in my childhood.
When my mother was ill after police tortured, she was taken to Dhaka Medical College Hospital for treatment, while I was only five and a half years old.
At that time, I was taken to a hospital in Dhaka, to my mother at the Medical College Hospital.
Then I saw my mother first.
I understood mother's feeling properly that day.
Then, when the mother became seriou ill, she was brought in parole for her medical treatment at the Calcutta Medical College Hospital.
The doctors said that the condition of my mother is not good.
I was taken to the medical college hospital in Kolkata to show the boy for the last time.
Actually, on that day I felt my mother first.
I realized that the woman who slept on the bed having closed two lanky eyes, was my proud mother.
Then I was seven years old.
And the actual truth was, medical college doctor, s Md. Alam did the tireless efforts to save my mother..
Having so many cases on her, my mother passed to Calcutta from Bangladesh and did not return.
Stayed in Calcutta.
I Remember that, Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, West Bengal Chief Minister Bidhan Chandra Roy stood up with her so that she would not need to face the cases of Tevaga movement .
Today my mother is no more.
In October of 2002, at the age of 77 she left us.
But her ideology and great sacrifice have spread in my mind.
I am still alive with that ideology.
In the dream, my mother, Ila Mitra.
My mother (Umratul Fazal) was like the mother of many people in Chittagong.
Organizer and writer of women's movement.
She died on May 15, 2005.
On 10 May she was taken to the clinic when she was seriously ill.
We realized that she would not return in this journey.
May 13th was my birthday.
I had hoped that my mother would die on my birthday and that would prove that there is a special relationship in my life with mother's life.
Because of not being that, I had a little sulks.
She was with me in bedtime for many years before her death.
The most striking feature of the mother's look was that her
affectionate looking in her big eyes.
When the mother watched glance with her eyes, then the affection would fall from her eyes.
Mom did not recognize me?
Could she understand my mind?
I do not know the news of a person's mind who is paralyzed in one side and also speechless.
It seemed to me that there was a little bit of laughter in the eyes of my mother.
Looked like she could understand my mind's saying.
It seemed saying, 'Do not worry, it will happen exactly what you want.
I'm out of need
It's time to go. '
Maybe she looked at all in this way.
Still, the discomfort and unhappy guilt became heavy.
She did pass on my birthday.
The day when it came true, we were not with her.
Only my wife and the girl that looked after her.
When the news came in the very early morning, the mind started to swing with double feeling.
Am I feeling the pain of separation?
Or have I become relieved from an invisible bond?
I myself can not understand myself.
With the gentle warmth of Baishakh's first moments, mother went away and the soft obscure spread around.
I have consolidate the mind again, this is the process of nature.
The feeling of pain and release is understandable in its manifestation.
On any special memorial day, who has come back to nature, it has no different value.
I am not even beyond this provision.
In the last two years, many memories of mom have become blurred.
But my special relationship with her was established after so many days.
The mother's big eyesight is blurry like a glowing light is bloomed in my mind.
Kahinur Begum, a resident of Bankishore village in Charghat upazila of Rajshahi.
She cultivates other's land on lease.
To make the cost, Kahinur Begum had to hard work with her husband equally.
However, although the hard workings are equal, the responsibility of the family are more on Kahinur Begum.
It seems to me when to get the news of Kahinur Begum from morning till evening.
She got up at 5:30 in the morning.
She went straight to the cowhouse.
As the cowhouse does not have the door, she looks at the house of her cowherd first.
Cows are being out.
Tied that near the food pot.
The cow does not want to eat the musty watered grass.
Kahinur becomes busy preparing their own food.
Kahinur Begum's son Sohan read in the fifth grade.
She started to clean the ashes quickly.
As she went to the drop the ashes, she poured a piece of coal in her mouth.
Then after a while she started to finger her teeth.
Now she started to swip the yard.
The floor of the house was cleaned in the gap.
She washed the dishes.
Washing her face from well's water, she sat near fire with a bowl of flour.
There she smeared the flour on a pot.
She fired the oven with flour filled in hand.
Within a few minutes the bread on top of the oven rose swollen.
Son Sohan and his grandfather Asakan Ali sat in the balcony.
Curry was not needed to be  cooked.
A little bit of curry from previous night was there, so it was sufficient for the grandfather grandson.
Kahinur Begum did not get time to sit and eat.
She took a bread in her mouth and started to tidy up the dishes. 
In this way her food was finished, things got cluttered.
Kahinur Begum's husband, Hujur Ali, came out of the house on a few days ago in the gap of cultivation.
Told the young boy to go to school on his responsibility, she took a sack and ran out of the house and ran towards the ground.
How she went there, it can not be said running, but it was not normal walking.
There was no time to talk to anyone.
There was no time to give ear to anyone.
Round and round the ground for hours and cut grass for the cow.
Filled the sacks with grass and ran again.
At the time of coming, stood for a moment beside the land she had leased.
'Looks like Lentils has been riped.
Some Lentils will be picked up today.'
Saying that she returned home with grass.
When the cow saw her returning , it
First chopped a little bit of grass.
After giving those to the cows she cut the remaining grass .
Now, with a dali, she ran to the Lentils field .
Intense sun.
There is no shadow to stand beside the land.
A little shade of a little mango a little far away.
Kahinur Begum became busy in lifting lentil.
Until 12 noon, the restless work was done.
Kahinur Begum can work equally with both hands.
There is no way to understand which is her right hand and or which is her left hand when seeing the style of picking up the lentils.
Now, she started bringing a little lentils in the dali.
But once she came home then did not return back again.
After returning to the house again fired the stove for the lunch.
Finished cooking.
He gave his father-in-law to eat.
She gave grass to the cow again.
Now she went to a bath.
Baral River next to the house.
There he did the bath.
She let the clothes to be dried and sat down to eat.
Then took rest for half an hour.
Then again she went out in the field with sacks and hoe.
Must have grass for the cow.
Once again, in Uttarpara field.
He brought the grass sacks and gave it to the cow.
Now, gathering in the goose, preparing the nunga in the morning dung made Nunda.
The plight of the house fell on the ground.
Kahinur Begum again organized dinner for the night.
Now, together with his son-in-law, he sat down to eat together.
At the end of the meal began to gather all.
The cows took the house.
Wash the dishes.
He made bed for his father-in-law.
The boy had already fallen asleep.
He picked her up on the bed.
It is about nine o'clock in the night.
Now it is Kahinur Begum's resting time.
On March 5, Bangladesh Biman Airlines's first officer Fareel Ahmed  duty was in Dhaka-Chittagong-Dhaka route.
From this morning on her journey from Dhaka to Chittagong, Touhida trophy and photographer Khaled Sarkar accompanied him.
A little late practice to wake up.
But there is no way for him if there is a flight.
Must wake up early.
She becomes ready while drinking tea with her husband. 
When the car comes she gets out for airport.
She enjoys this challenging profession.
Talking about Farriel Ahmed, the first officer of Biman Bangladesh Airlines F-28
She familiarized with this as many of the family have been  pilot.
That's why dhe has a good relationship with this life.
Husband Zahid Hossain is also a pilot.
I appeared in the morning to see a day of Fariel Ahmed at her Uttara home on a working day.
Morning tea episode ended.
Wearing aerial clothing and afterwards went out with a bag.
Traveled to Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport in a scheduled carriage of the airline.
The car stopped in front of the Plane Operation building.
The first work of the day starts from here.
Takes briefing by signing the attendance book.
That day's flight was in the internal route.
Dhaka-Chittagong-Dhaka.
As a result, what would be the weather on that day, the velocity of the wind, the humidity, if there is any difficulty in getting to the Chittagong Airport where the aircraft will land, whether a special person is going in this plane or not. Ferial took a briefing on various issues.
After that, waiting in the domestic for the fixed vehicle.
That car would take her near the plane.
According to the morning's briefing, she set the cockpit according that.
On that day she gathers the total weight , the total number of luggage, including total weight-fuel.
Writing them in one place is called a Trimsheet.
According to this, the speed of the plane is determined.
Has observed it more than once.
Passengers arrival announcement is given when the cockpit and cabin are ready.
The plane flew to Chittagong at 9am.
Another pilot with the original leadership of the cockpit first officer Feriel
The flight started at 15,000 ft height.
Earlier, the plane was once again checked on the runway.
Feriel kept doing her determined work in the cockpit.
After half an hour the plane arrived in Chittagong.
It is necessary to write everything related to how much fuel costs have been spent.
After a half-hour break, the journey to Dhaka again.
The plane landed at 11am at Dhaka.
After the passenger got down, Fearl wrote the airtime, the BlackTime in logbook.
She was justified by giving all the details of the journey.
From there return to home again.
Return with the car that served in the morning.
The journey for today is ended-She signs in a notebook like this.
Many folks think she works for such a short time!
Although giving less time than other professions, it is not necessary to say how important the work is.
Said Fareal.
Return home before noon.
If her husband does not have any flight on that day, they  lunch together.
If not too tired, then Ferile cook too.
She likes to cook very much.
If there is flight,enough rest must be taken.
Two get out at the afternoon .
Feriel said, 'We both love to travel.
Enjoying the life.
And with the support and cooperation of Zahid, everything is easy.
Because of the same profession, we understand each other as we know we are one.
Our understanding is very good. '
In the evening, both of them walk with discipline for one hour.
Occasionally, they meet with friends.
Feriel-Zahid sat in the study at night.
Take dinner within nine.
Then they start to do their own work.
The morning work is kept a little ahead at night.
Start to see if a favorite movie near hand.
In all, this auspicious couple is very happy.
They are proud to work in this profession.
Feriel said, "There is no gender discrimination here.
It has to go ahead with the proof of merit. '
Kamruzzaman and photographer Saikat Bhadra along with the working day of the train engineer Salma Khatun from Kamalapur Railway Station on March 2.
'If the engine that brings the train and the front of the engine is to turn it on again, then it has to be turned around.
The engine then took the train leaving Kamalapur.
I have to be the assistant driver with the driver in the engine. '
Salma Khatun said about her work.
On March 2, at the Kamalapur railway station in the morning, at the Lokosheda first met with Salma.
Her eight hours work from six in the morning to two in the noon.
She is the assistant engineer of the train engine.
Position of the term ALM (locomotive masters).
On March 8, International Women's Day, Salma was employed.
Shee joined the service on 8 March 2004.
Today she has completed seven years of her career.
She said that her village house in Tangail's Bhuapurapura upazila.
Grew up there
Three brothers, two sisters.
After passing SSC and HSC examinations, the dream of further study was in two eyes.
She went to Rajshahi to take admission in Rajshahi University.
There was no train in Tangail before the Jamuna Bridge was commissioned.
So she did not ride the train, nor was it heard.
Because of the admission test, she rid the train.
She did not think that one day she would be the driver of this train.
She could not pass the admission test.
Shortly afterwards, Salma's father died.
The elder brothers told Salma to look for a job.
At the railway, the ALM (locomotive masters), ie assistant truck driver, she gave test in that post.
Passed.
Then the training.
She took training in Chittagong, sometimes Dewanganjbazar, and at Akhaura junction railway station.
Completed the training very well.
Where Salma is now working, she is the only woman.
Is there a problem with working male co-workers in such challenging profession?
Salma smiled.
'It is now seven years.
Now I'm accustomed to everything.
Come in the morning.
Then, after doing the work there, I go to the house after completing the office schedule.
There was not a big problem yet.
Salma queried if she had to bring any engine with her.
One from Shade said, 'After a while the engine will come, the engine must be turned around.'
Waiting for the engine starts.
The engine comes up with whistling.
Male ALMers leave locoshed with engines according to their predecessor schedule.
At around 11am there was an engine of 2600 serials.
In the shade, the engine was tested.
Salma went out for a while telling us to sit .
Five minutes later, she was ready with the dress of the trainer.
Like an experienced driver, she got up in the engine.
Salma sat on the left side.
The driver is right beside
She peeped out her head through engine's window.
The driver said, 'Signaled.
Go now. '
Salma blew the whissels.
Drivers drive the engine.
Salma examined again, 'Line is clear.'
The engine started running.
On the other side, another engine taking a train.
The driver of the engine waved his hand to salma..
Salma also raised her hand and replied.
Photographer took a photo of Salma at that time.
Seeing that the pictures were being taken, the workers working on the line were very happy.
One said, 'Take more pictures of Salma apa.
It's certainly joy for us, that she is still working amongst us. '
The engine stopped at a certain point.
The lines were turned around.
The engine started moving again.
Salma is quite confident in the eyes.
Smile on her face.
The engine turned around.
She came down from the engine when came near the shade.
Talking about a story while walking on the parallel railline.
It was a few months ago.
There was a local train on the Dhaka-Joydevpur route.
'I was in the train engine as an assistant train driver.
I have become saddened.
Because engine failed three times just starting for Joydevpur.
I was a bit embarrassed that day.
But every time my driver started the engine very efficiently.
I have seen that how to handle this situation.
When we came back again with the train, I was in good mood.
Salma came in Lokoshed.
She wrote a couple of papers on her table.
Asked her,learned hown to operate engine- did you run any vehicles before?
Salma said, 'Never operate any vehicle before.
Occasionally I think, can I really run the engine?
Many from my house think about that.
Once I showed  the engine to my mother and sister.
They were very much happy !
Father would be certeinly happy if he could see this.'
When will assistant name will be cut off from Assistant driver?
Salma remained silent.
Thought of something.
She said, 'Actually, this will take time.
Maybe there will be promotion after a few years, and then be a train driver. '
Salma wanted higher education.
So, after joining the job, she has continued to study.
Did the BA passcourse.
Now she wants to study law.
Then leave a job to do?
'Not at all.
Let's get a certificate.
But I will work in the railway.
Because in this few years I have loved this profession very much.
I have many memories with it. '
Saying Salma
Office work is almost finished.
Salma would go home.
Salma said, 'Come on.'
She started to walk alongside railway towards the railway colony in Shahjahanpur.
She said, only a few minutes walks her house.
Shopkeepers around the colony know Salma very well.
Many shopkeepers wanted to know her condition.
Before going to home, she made the necessary shopping.
Entering the house she became a little surprised.
Railway quarters,
That buildingv is in worn phase.
Palistara has been falling from many places.
She lives in a small room of ground floor.
She said, "DRM Sir said, a good home will be allocated.
Will get in the new home.
At first there was a little bit bad here.
But now it's gone. '
Salma started cooking for lunch.
The little sister went to college.
After coming, they would eat together.
Then how do you spend time?
'I read books after taking lunch.
Read different types of books.
I fell asleep while reading.
Then wake up a little before evening. '
After finishing the house work, she sat in front of the TV.
But there is no chance to watch TV till late night.
Because the next day, at 5 in the morning, Salma has to go.
After praying, she prepars breakfast and prepare to go the office.
The whistle of the engine dragges her, and she gets involved in the love of whistle till noon.
Wanted to know about personal life to Salma
Laughing
'No, I did not get married.
Want to establish myself.
Then I'll get married.
But I want to do the job after marriage. '
In 1984, a first year female student of Sylhet Osmani Medical College.
It was a highly discussed story of a very beatifull female student to be burnt by acid.
Later, however, the girl went to the United Kingdom for better treatment with the help of  government of that time.
Since then, such vigilance had often happened.
In the nineties, in this case, the woman party and the woman's leader, whose name if I do not say, I would consider myself a very guilty person, she is the late Nasrin Huq, the first person, who was vocal about this heinous crime in society.
She  consulted with me about the treatment of acidified women and we were planning on the matter.
It is not a flase statement that, her inspiration helped me to fight against that worst crime.
Later, in 1997, Huj Carpenter, the British High Commissioner of that time visited Dhaka Medical College Hospital and he inquired about the treatment of burn patients.
Later, on his request, the British citizen John Morrison visited Dhaka Medical College Hospital to meet with me.
He came to see acid patients of 35 b-ward in our hospital.
Then in our ward, an acidic patient named Majeda was admitted.
Majeda was then pregnant and one eye was blind due to acid.
She was attacked by husband.
After seeing this patient, sitting in my room, John Morrison and I decided to do something for them.
Later, on 12 May 1999, the Acid Survivors Foundation was born by John Morrison's endeavor.
Among those who were involved in this, Kazi Fazlur Rahman, late Ivy Rahman, Advocate Sigma Huda, Salma Ali and Nasrin Huq were most significant.
In this way, treatment and rehabilitation of these patients have started.
The Prothom-alo fund for specially for acid burnt women is playing a special role in this, which is notable.
With the long experience of treating acidified patients, I think it is necessary to bring their morale and self-confidence back along with treatment as well.
Whether we plastic surgeons try with advanced treatment at home and abroad, their facial distortion is not possible to reshape in any way.
That is why it is needed to bring their morale back and rehabilitate and everyone in the society should give effort for this.
We believe that the efforts of government and non-government organizations to end acid-terrorism require sincere efforts.
In this case, the government has been playing an important role in formulating the 'National Acid Control Council'.
But in this regard, all the public, media and students of all sections of society must be aware of this.
Only then it can be possible to stop acid-terrorism.
It is better that acid patients should be treated as soon as possible, and this treatment is possible only by an expert doctor.
In Bangladesh at present, the burn unit of Dhaka Medical College Hospital is the only institution, where its treatment is possible.
In the interest of the increased burn patients, it is necessary to set up a burn unit in each medical college hospital.
The present government is very sincere in this regard.
Hopefully, it will be possible to complete this task nationwide quickly.
Finally, I request a sincere request to all, 'Let us all become more active in the eradication of acid-terrorism and treatment and rehabilitation burning patients.'
Dr. Samant Lal Sen: Project Director of Burn Unit, Dhaka Medical College Hospital and Vice President of Prothom Alo Trust
'The person who got the snake bites, knows what the pain it is.
It is difficult to understand the amount of pain who has suffered from acids.
Those who threw acid on me, were jailed and fined but I did not get compensation because of legal complications.
I do not know how long I will have to bear the irritation.
These words were said by Shamsul Haque of Bhataria village of Raiganj upazila of Sirajganj district who was attacked by acid-terror.
Many acidified patients like Shamsul expressed their feelings.
Acid abuse is not being decreased due to acid control law.
Every month anybody is being acid-terrorized.
The affected people are living in a miserable life.
All the thousands of acid industry in the country use Acid but everybody does not have license.
They are collecting acid by illegal means.
There are national acid control councils in every district but there is no supervision on sales and use.
For example, according to the licensing branch of the Department of the Deputy Commissioner's Office in Shatkhira, only seven organizations have licenses.
There are 13 in Dinajpur and 17 in Rangpur.
There are 19 business entities in Bhola, but many businesses and educational institutions use acid in the district.
All other organizations have no approval certificates.
Similar images throughout the country.
Asked about this, Home Secretary Abdus Sobhan Sikder said in Prothom Alo that, the acid law was amended during the caretaker government.
The law is now awaiting to be passaged.
Acid abuse will be reduced if the new law becomes effective.
Under this law, a national council has been formed.
He said the government is providing legal help as well as financial help for the aid of the victims.
Acidid Fazilatun Nasea said, "Corruption is everywhere, we do not know what to do after being acidified .
The police does not want to take the case, the police neglects the investigation report.
We do not get justice anywhere. '
Executive Director of Acid Survivors Foundation Monira Rahman said, the law does not have proper application, so the abuse of acid is not decreasing.
The seventh chapter of the Gazette No. 1 , published on 17 March 2002, mentions that "production, import, transport, stock, sale and use of acid without license is a criminal offense.
Those who do not license and do not comply with the conditions of the license, they will have a provision of 10 years and not less than three years of rigorous imprisonment and an additional fine of 50 thousand taka.
Acid users business again say that the license fee should be reduced.
Mridul Dey, director of Jollandi Jewelers at Bhola Sadar Road, said that gold traders of Bhola are not very big businessmen.
Their capital is very little.
The fee charged for the use and sale of acids is very high.
The Acid Criminal Prevention Act 2002 was strictly prohibited for acid attack, but the sentence was less.
The law states that burners, decaying and poisonous substances are called acid.
Acid Criminal Prevention Tribunal: The Tribunal judge will be the Judge of the District or Sessions Judge or the Senate, Additional District and Sessions Judge can also be included in this sense.
Death penalty or life imprisonment for imprisonment if death in acid.
Fine: Up to one lakh taka fine.
If injured when a. If the eyesight or hearing loss is complete or partially damaged, the face, breasts or genitals are distorted or destroyed, will be sentenced to death, or imprisonment for life imprisonment.
Fine fine up to one lakh taka.
B. If any other organs, glands or parts of the body are distorted or destroyed or hurt in any part of the body, its punishment is not exceeding 14 years but at lease seven years of imprisonment with hard labor.
Fine fine up to 50 thousand taka.
If anyone tries to throw or throws acid if it even does not harm, he will be punished for not more than seven years but for not less than three years.
Fine fine up to 50 thousand taka.
If supports committing the crime, it's penalty will be punished with the main culprit in the same sentence.
If convicted or falsely charged, it is punishable with a maximum of seven years of rigorous imprisonment and  additional fine.
Fines will go to the damaged person.
The person accused in false cases has to file a written complaint directly to the tribunal.
Acid-violence crime is non-compulsory and non-bailable.
However, the bail grant depends on the reasonable satisfaction logic of the court according to the provisions of the law.
According to the information received from National Acid Control Council, there were 1,949 cases filed across the country from 2002 to 2009.
891 complaints has been submitted  and 575 final reports has been submitted .
In these cases, only 13 people were sentenced to death, 95 people got life imprisonment and other punishments were for about 165.
That is, 273 people were sentenced.
One thousand 488 accused have been released in these cases.
International Women's Day on 8th March.
This year is celebrating 100 years of announcement of this day worldwide.
According to the proposal of Clara Jatkin, leader of the German Socialist Movement, in the Second International Women's Conference held in Copenhagen in 1910, historically on March 8, World Women's Day was announced.
International Women's Day on March 8, the contribution of women's rights is immense.
One of the major obstacles to the development of women is the variety of violence committed against women and the main reason and values ??of this heinous crime, which the woman always subdues men and is controlled by the male.
These values ??allow men's aggression and oppression against women.
According to a 2005 statistics conducted by the World Health Organization, 57.5 percent of women were victims of sexual or physical or both forms of torture.
A study found that 99 percent of cases ,the abusers are men or teenagers.
Of these, more than 50 percent of them are students falling out of school, unemployed, cheated, drug addicts and financially and economically well-fed more than the affected.
So it is very important to work with men to stop violence against women.
However, not only men and adolescents who should be considered as potential offenders, but should find out that those men and adolescents who respect the equal rights of women as responsible citizens and actively participate in all forms of violence against women.
On the occasion of International Women's Day in 2002, the Acid Survivors Foundation, BRAC and Prothom Alo organized men's rally and march in Bangladesh for the first time.
Approximately five thousand men took part in the rally.
Artists, singers, actors, literary, journalists, labor leaders, lawyers, and academics gathered together on this occasion.
The leaders of different social, economic and state institutions gathered together, working men and boys gathered together.
Only one slogan was voiced by thousands of voices, 'Effective legislation to stop acid-terrorism'.
As a result, the government of Bangladesh passed the 'Acid Crimes Repression Act 2002' on 17th March.
Later, on the occasion of International Women's Day every year, mens's commitments are organized to stop all forms of violence against women, including acid-violence.
Like every year, on March 7, at the rally of mens's commitments was held in Rabindrasarobra in Dhanmondi at 3:30 pm.
Many people have joined this movement to stop acid-violence.
It is a matter of great joy that many parties have now realized the need to add men to this movement to stop the oppression of women.
This feeling of realization of the mutual complement of men and women in the developmental genre is truly a positive memento.
More joyous, when we organized the first men's rally in 2002, 490 people were victims of acid attack.
In 2009, the number decreased to 145.
Despite in every two days one acid attack happens in the country.
The more the positive image of the male will be manifested, the more 'ideal men' will be created in the socialization process of the boys and girls of our country.
In the issue of human rights and violence-related issues, especially in acid-violence, hateful, social and cultural fields, and in the policy-making industry, the media's powerful and active role is once again applauded.
Monira Rahman: Executive Director, Acid Survivors Foundation
Between 2000 and 2009, 696 children under 18 years of age were acidified as well as 706 males as well as 1,392 women.
Total two thousand 795 people.
One study found that 99 percent acid caster is male.
Of these, more than half of them are students falling out of school, unemployed, cheated, drug addicts and financially and economically well-fed more than the affected.
In 2006, acid-violence incidents fell by 20 percent compared to 2005.
In 2007, the incidence of acid-violence in 2007 decreased by 16 percent compared to 2006.
In 2008, acid-violence incidents fell by 25 percent in 2009 compared to 2008.
In 2009, the highest number of acid-hit districts were in Jamalpur, eight in Gazipur, eight in Nilphamari, seven in Netrokona, seven in Sirajganj, six in Bhola, six in Bogra, six in Dhaka, six in Jessore, six in Jessore, six in Pabna, five in Brahmanbaria, five in Khulna, five in Rajshahi  and five in Satkhira .
Various reasons for acid throwing have been found, in 2009 out of 145 acid throwing cases in whole country, seven acids were thrown due to dowry, due to family dispute acid thrown to 10 people, 62 were casted acid due to dispute with land and money, acid thrown to 14 people because of marriage rejecting cases and reason unknown for 22 people.
Other causes have led to throw to 19 people and 12 people have been thrown due to obstraction in sexual or love relations.
In the age analysis in 2009, it is found that most of the acid victims were under 18 years of age.
Of these, there are 14 women under 18 years of age,in total 18 of them including four men, 14 women from 19-24 years, along with six men, 20 men, 32 women aged 25-34 years, as well as 44 people including 12 men, 35-44 years of age 22 Besides the women, there are 30 people, including eight men, 12 women of 45-54 years, as well as 23 people including 11 men, five women of 55 years, and 10 men, including five men.
The Acid Survivors Foundation was established on May 12, 1999 in order to provide medical treatment, care, rehabilitation of victims, and the elimination of acid-violence .
To ensure possible and high level treatment to acid patients;
Creating a suitable environment for ensuring justice for acid-affected people;
Attaching them with mainstream of society and development, including financial rehabilitation of acid victims;
In order to stop acid-violence gradually, to inspire people of all classes, occupation and level of the community and to combine this to fight against the violence.
ASF is working through five units to achieve these four objectives-
Notification unit: Any incident of acid attack can occur anywhere in Bangladesh, ASF can know and record within 24 hours and may be able to bring acidified person under treatment within 48 hours of receiving report.
Medical Unit: As soon as possible the ASF hospital transports the affected person to life support.
The 20-bed hospital has been developed to provide the best medical and nursing care system that is provided in country and abroad.
Legal Aid Unit: The unit explains the progress of the case by sending the cases to the Associated Organizations, maintaining contact with the affected people and explaining to them and their families about the action taken in the case.
Organizing training workshops regulary on law and legal steps.
Social Rehabilitation Unit: Providing financial assistance to the family of acid-affected people in the immediate disaster, giving scholarships to children who are affected, skill development and work-based training, employment opportunities for victims and linking with entrepreneurs.
Research, Advocacy and Resistance Unit: In the year 2002, on the occasion of International Women's Day, ASF acid-suppression campaign launched with a colorful 'men's procession' with about five thousand men protesting against acid violence.
The Prothom Alo and Acid Survivors Foundation jointly organized this procession.
They are regularly organizing meetings, seminars and workshops to change the outlook of the society.
Issues that this unit considers to raise mass awareness against acid-violence is the promotion of acid-violence law, social movements against acid criminals, prevention of acid sale in a non-licensed, etc.
Communication equipment;
Distribution of materials: such as posters, leaflets, stickers, information books, newsletters, festoons, placards are distributed from national to grassroots .
In addition to this, the unit is working to develop a fruitful lobby with government agencies including the National Acid Control Council and the District ACID Control Committee, Local Government and Administration.
The Prothom Alo reported against acid-terrorism, features, editorial- all the places have a special emphasis on newspaper pages inspired by the promise 'no more faces should be burnt out'.
Where there is acid-terrorism, there is resistance.
The subsidiary fund for acidified women, working with the aim of preventing acid-terrorism, is working under the Prothom Alo Trust.
Although the fund began with the one day salary of the Prothom Alo journalists on April 19, 2000;
But funding is going on by the financial support of many readers of the Prothom Alo and well-wisher.
Among the readers are some established businessmen who does not will to publish their names, prominent corporate employees of the corporate world, school children, or garment workers.
The Prothom Alo fund is providing rehabilitate,treatment and legal aid to the acid-affected woman from the fund that is being donated by readers of the Prothom Alo on basis of trust and confidence in them.
So far, 130 acid-affected women have been rehabilitated.
They have been economically self-reliant by providing them land, houses, shops, livestock, trawlers.
Apart from this, more than 100 women have received training, monthly allowances, education scholarships, legal assistance and medical assistance.
In all, 230 women received assistance from Prothom-alo Support Fund.
In the future, the Prothom Alo fund gives most priority to raise awareness of the fact that acid-terrorism must be closed.
Work is being done to create public opinion in meetings,  views, especially in areas outside of Dhaka which have acid-terrorism.
Recently, such a big exchange meeting was held in Bhola, Sirajganj, Narsingdi.
The Prothom-alo now spreads through the internet every day to the expatriate readers around the world.
The initiative to create awareness of their financial participation and awareness in this fund is commendable.
The opportunity to provide self-employment for acid-affected women by coordinating with the local representatives of the whole country on the basis of research and other people working against the prevention of acid-terrorism.
10 days of 1971.
In the history of the War of Liberation, every day of the seventeenth war is important.
Every day is written with the letter of blood.
Even then, some days are glorified with sacrifice,pride and self-sacrifice.
A date becomes the symbol of struggle, the indescribable memories of respect and victory.
The Independence Day article of the Prothom Alo is adorned with 10 such dates of 1971 w - March 7, Bangabandhu's speech;
March 26, the declaration of independence;
April 17, forming the government of Mujibnagar;
Sector commanders meeting on July 11;
On August 1, the Concert for Bangladesh;
December 3, India-Pakistan war;
December 6, India recognizes Bangladesh;
4-15 December, Bangladesh-debate in the United Nations;
December 14, the killing of intellectuals and December 16, the final victory.
In 1971, our liberation war that took the global form beyond geographical bounds, at some date it was also symbolized.
These days will be memorable for us, not only in history, but also as a routine for the future.
We are celebrating 40 years of independence.
To make a beautiful, enlightened Bangladesh, now we have to struggle for change.
These days of seventy-one will give us the motivation to  struggle in the way of change,.
Matiur Rahman
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's speech in the seventh of march is like a flame in history of Bangladesh.
Within 40 years it is still fresh, relevant and similarly stimulating.
This is an immortal statement, whose role and contribution has not yet finished in the nation's life.
It is as if it is ready to provide the nurturing of the struggle for the needs of a nation;
An unforgettable experience for any Bengali people listening to this speech.
Whichever era it is, however, whatever the age of Bengalis, this speech will stir up, inspire them.
This speech will renew his pledge to country, man and history.
And so in today's 40 years of experience, it is said to be a great art without time bound, which is still equally motivating.
This artistic speech was tied from the beginning to the end in a wire, as if thunderbolt sound would spill all the obstacles of the opponent and bring the nation to the power of independence.
It was possible because of Bangabandhu's magical orchestration-in the speech, there was criticism, accusation, anger and dissent
But the importance of the necessary instructions and final declaration did not go down.
In the speech, the main goal was not gone wrong.
The speech is not just intellectual creation, but the emotion of love is fully present.
It's appeal to both the intelligence and the heart.
So an inspired speaker on that day introduced his dependent mobilization to the greatest vow of life.
His call reached the hearts of people.
Five turns of this one string speech can be seen.
He started the recollection of man's self-sacrifice all over the country and  his and the Bengali's favoritism for systematic politics.
After that he louded his voice tweeting the context of deprivation-torture-cheating that was received by the Pakistani rulers, he took up the issue of neglecting his compromise even after the elections.
In the same thread, Bhutto's role, in particular, left the conspirator Bhutto and joined the Awami League, complaining against the government of Pakistan, to the people of Bangladesh.
Then he took a small turn- he had openly talked to the public that, despite the peaceful struggle  there was aggressive role and conspiracy of Yahya.
Responded to all the complaints and condemned murder and torture.
The unity of the leader and the crowd became so deep.
Now the people of the country's people lags behind confusion and conspiracy because of their confidence and anxiety.
The conditions for the government, and the instructions given to the people, in the uncomplicated clear language.
Warned the government, alerted people.
Then asked the people to prepare for the extreme struggle, took the role of alternative government.
Told about the instructions.
No, did not forget to talk about instructions.
At the end, in the immensive tension, he freed the bow from arrow- this time's struggle is our struggle for freedom;
This time's struggle is our struggle for independence.
The liberation movement that was excited to jump in the struggle for independence, got the signal through this speech.
This speech transformed the Bengali to the heroic nation.
After this speech, those little hesitation and conflict of mind have disappeared.
Naturally divided, dissident people got the motivation to unite forgetting all the differences.
This unity did not mean any limit, nor the people, united all Bangalis.
Personal life, family, and their normal activities seemed to be very small.
This speech, opened the closed door of hearts of all, eliminated all small ideas and brought them together in the great battlefield of history.
At Ramna Racecourse ground, that afternoon, a nation was reborn in a miraculous speech.
The seventh March speech transformed all Bengalis into the army of Joy Bangla without bounding the form of religion-color-age-gender.
The speech inspired  Bengalis in such magic, which led not possible to think of any other factor without fighting and freedom, sacrifice and heroism.
A speech enlightened the whole nation in one meditation with great brow.
Joy Bangla was a battle cry during the nine month's liberation, Mujib was a great leader, and the seventh March speech was an infinite source of inspiration.
The seventh march speech is not only unforgettable, but the inspiration for the Bengalis.
This is a classic commentary on politics, classical creation.
17 March 2011, Chittagong
Many writing have been written about meetings of the March 7.
I was fortunate that I was on stage.
As a worker of Bangabandhu, and also as an elected representative.
I was also the election agent of Bangabandhu.
I was in charge of election of Dhaka city from Tongi to Narayanganj  .
He was elected from two seats.
Old Town of Dhaka and Tejgaon-Tongi.
He said to me, I left Tejgaon-Tongi seat.
There I will nominate you.
That's how I became an elected representative.
Before March 7, I talked to Tajuddin's brother, in particular.
Bangabandhu will give a written statement, to keep it as a document to give it to the press.
And the situation of the racecourse field that day, millions of people came from all sides.
I wrote a statement.
Bangabandhu said, I will not give a written statement, I will give a statement from myself.
Formulate the points.
His speech will be a historic document for us.
The guideline we received for the statement is that we would like to tell to avoid bloodshed, if the path to the creation of constitution is stopped, then we will go on the path of independence.
Perhaps the written statement was made on 5th March.
An English version was also made.
Tajuddin was in the main charge .
I worked to help him.
The instructions given on that day are that Tajuddin will be on the stage and keep looking at the written statement, if there needs any correction, then he will correct it and give it to the press.
Those words came in Bangabandhu's speech.
When Bangabandhu was giving a speech, I could not remember whether the draft we had created was in the hands of Bangabandhu.
But it was in the hands of Tajuddin .
Bangabandhu saw it before going to the stage.
Bangabandhu did not give a written speech.
He gave a speech by himself.
He also had the words in the draft in his mind.
But the portion of his speech will be remembered forever- 'The struggle for our freedom is the struggle for our liberation, this struggle is the struggle for independence' - this is his speech only.
He gave that as a nice poetry-like statement.
The special reason for writing in this way is that if they say we have declared independence solely, then they will fire.
If you see the preparation of that day.
Machine guns were fitted everywhere.
Machine gun was also on the roof of Shahbagh Hotel.
Wherever the masses gather, machine guns are there.
There is no remaining left to prepare for war.
At the moment, if the declaration of independence was officially announced then there would no other way than the bullets.
Bangabandhu's speech has been internationally recognized.
The London Guardian newspaper has published many historical speeches.
Such as Abraham Lincoln's Gatisburg address, Churchill's speech during World War II.
It has been mentioned that Bangabandhu's speech is also at the same level.
The speeches that creates history, Bangabandhu's speech was such a history-making speech.
March 20, 2011, Dhaka
What will Bangabandhu say on 7 March, there was that anxiety, questioning everywhere .
The session of the National Assembly was postponed, the soldiers shot and killed many people.
The situation has gone in such a way, there was no way back.
We, art college teachers and students have been associated with the autocratic movement since the sixties.
We were the workers of cultural parliament.
I was directly involved in the mass movement of 69.
Artists and literary teachers have been directly mixed with all the people of the country.
We took out the procession, where the demand of Bangladeshi people's was prefixed in the foreground-not the confidentiality but freedom, independence.
It was written '????-??-?-?? ' on four Kulas.
And the racecourse field is in front of our art college.
We drew a lot of cartoons, I was young cartoonist, many cartoons, and even those cartoons were held in the hands of our procession, and after the procession, they were hanged in the art college.
We see from college that people are coming from morning on seventy March.
Processions after the processions.
People came with sticks.
The rally from the direction of the Institution of Engineers came with Oar.
All kinds of people from everywhere.
From all the places where people can come, all ages, men and women of all levels.
I, Bulbul Osman, Hashem Khan and Shahadat Chowdhury entered the public gatherings in three o clock from the opposite side of the library.
There were wooden fences around the racecourse field.
There was mountain of Shishupark,gym was situated near the hill, and a banyan tree.
Could not get closer to the stage.
Only people and people all around.
Millions of people.
It was a wonderful scene.
That scene can not be forgotten.
Bangabandhu did give a great speech!
Like Sirajuddadala, as the voice rises slowly and its fluctuations like Sachin's voice
Gradually he created the whole atmosphere.
All the people were blossomed.
When all the senses were anxious to hear a sentence, he declared, 'This struggle is our struggle for freedom, this struggle is the struggle for independence.'
After the speech ended we came to Sharif's canteen.
All young writers-artists and culture workers used to chatting there.
Then there was one topic-politics.
After that speech, all became one, who was a Russian convert, who was a pro-China, who was Awami League or a silent Muslim League-all became the singular.
We knew that there is only one destination in front of us - freedom.
18 March 2011, Dhaka
Such a final direction can not be anything else
Sultana Kamal .
On March 7, I saw sitting at the Art College, people gathered in the racecourse field from the morning.
This kind of publicity, like the waves of the sea, was racing in the racecourse.
There are different waves coming together and mixing with other waves.
There is no other way to understand what wave was before, what was next, as if it was one entity.
Someone's hand had sticks, festoons, oar.
People of different appearance-characters.
Someone was walking, someone with rickshaw, somebody with own vehicles.
But everyone was coming to that place, which was their destination.
The strangers, the people of different identities that came here,became to be part of a huge public gathering.
It was a strange match, which is still thrilled to think.
We went to Race Course ground from the direction of Art College.
There is no place for a single spot on the ground even it was around noon only.
I know, mother was sitting in the front row.
Sister Saida went too.
When the time came, Bangabandhu came.
When he got up on the stage with the stairs, the public shouted, I felt as if he was standing in the ocean, but there was a strong stir, but the consistent continuity was seen, the shout of the public, this festivity was just like him.
It seems, this is the identity of an invincible force.
No one can 'suppress' this power.
This freedom fighter can never be stopped
Looking at this crowd of people, the sea is bigger than that, it is more difficult, than it is deeper?
Bangabandhu got up on the stage, gave a speech.
People kept looking at him.
At first he described the history of the deprivation of 23 years.
Lastly he said, "This struggle is our struggle for freedom, this struggle is the struggle for independence."
He got down saying the words in such a way that it seems, there might be nothing greater and final than any direction.
I felt that he was sorrounded by the mass people when he was getting down.
But this announcement was going on in our hearts, this announcement dragged us towards the Liberation War.
March 20, 2011, Dhaka
Outside a cuckoo was singing.
Wind is coming from the the southern window, the famous spring is coming.
Buds are blooming in the mango tree!
Nowadays the smell of gun powder only, the smell of tire burns.
Suddenly, a flashing spring wind blew a touch of peace on Sheikh Mujib's body.
He felt that there was such a scent under the mangoes beside the small canal in front of their house at Tungipara in Gopalganj.
The plant's ground was somehow covered with bud's granule.
Sheikh Mujib was lying in bed.
His elder daughter, Haseu, was sitting with a couch near his head.
Begum Mujib was sitting near the feet
Sheikh Mujib called her Renau.
Mujib should not be slept like this in this afternoon.
Today is March 7th.
1971.
The racecourse field was filled with people.
There are nearly 1 million people gathered there.
Almost everyone's hand had sticks.
The slogan of all: 'Take the arms brave Bangladeshis, free Bangladesh.'
Freedom ... whole life of Mujib had only one goal that  being brought up with caution.
When the partition of India happened in 1947, the motto of forming an unbroken Bengal with the last moment of Sharat Bose and Mujib's leader Suhrawardy's Assam, got bogged down, the progressive part of the muslim league known as Abul Hashim Panthi became confused with Khwaja, while a group of Muslim students joined the Sheikh Mujib in Baker hostel With similar employees
On that day he said, "Pakistan is being achieved, but our struggle is not over, it is beginning."
He started  rally-meetings in Dhaka.
In 1948, the movement started with 'Bangla as a state language'.
In the last 24 years, he had been working for this purpose.
In October 1958, with Anthony Mascaras, he was excited by the Baloch regiment's message, "We have to get freedom.
We must have our own army, navy and air force.
Today he reached a junction.
Yesterday afternoon Pakistan President Yahya Khan gave a speech.
He heard this speech on his own bed in the house.
All blames are upon the Bengalis?
Fault is ours?
Bullets bought by our blood prices are being sown on my people, and fault is ours?
Last night a discussion meeting with Awami League leaders was happened.
Today the whole nation is waiting for what he will say on the Racecourse field, to listen to it.
People want to hear one thing.
Freedom.
He has already been told from the United States of the United States, at the moment, Udi, the Universal Declaration of Independence,they do not want it.
Yahya Khan called yesterday night, he requested that Mujib should not make any final announcement right now.
Today, if he declares independence today, the Pakistani army would start the attack today.
Blood bank will be streamed.
He will be blamed for being a separatist.
It is not only a matter of declaration of independence.
It has to be retained.
The Palestinians are fighting for independence for many years, the Irish are fighting, but could not achieve it.
On the other hand, people are moving towards the explosion at their own pace.
This leadership will go beyond Mujib's reach, if the dialogue of time from his mouth is not pronounced.
The students have made the flag of independent Bangladesh.
The flag was hoisted in his presence.
His whole life's dream is 'My Sonar Bangla I love you' - this song will be the national anthem of Bangladesh.
Everything is right.
Student leaders repeatedly tell him that they do not want to hear nothing less than declaring independence.
Farooq Iqbal was shot dead three days ago.
Was student of Abujar Gifari College .
They were holding a procession at Mouchak-Malibagh intersection.
Mujib has heard that this student, with his own blood, wrote on the road, 'Joy Bangla'.
People have learned to die.
Who can stop these men?
Some moments later he will have to get up in the car.
He has to go to the Racecourse field.
Renu said to him, 'You held meeting for late night.
Did not get time to take rest for a moment.
Now take a rest.
Stay in bed for 10 minutes. '
Mujib heard Renu's words.
He laid the body for 10 minutes in the bed.
Renu near the foot, Hashu near his head.
Begum Mujib said, 'Listen, millions of people in front of you, stick in their hands.
Gun behind you.
These millions should not be disappointed.
No need to hear any advice.
Look at your conscience.
Say what your mind says. '
Mujib got strength from some where.
He will tell what his mind says.
He got up.
Begum Mujib forwarded to him white Punjabi, his black hatakata coat.
Bangabandhu Mujib started off .
For security reasons,the car did not travel from 32 number to direct Mirpur rather travelled through the west side.
Sheikh Mujib is going on.
People and people are on the way.
Sticks, logs are in the hand.
Only one condition- freedom.
Late in reaching the stage due to crowd of people .
Boat shaped stage.
Where the Shishu Park in now in the stage was in its southeast corner, 
The sun is coming down.
The breeze of Falgun stunned to hear what Mujib says.
There are 10 million people assembled.
Seven million Bengali with them.
The man who has become the only voice of Bangali for his courage, promise, patriotism, self-sacrifice for 24 years, he will now speak.
He stood in front of the microphone.
A green helicopter was flying over the racecourse to tell the presence of the army.
Mujib greeted the crowd and spoke .
'I have appeared before you with a sad heart.'
He said, "I do not want to be the Prime Minister, I want the rights of the people of the country."
He said, 'Build fort in each house.
You have to face the enemy with whatever you have. '
'When blood is given, blood will be given more.
Inashalaha will free the people of this country.
This struggle is our struggle for freedom, this struggle is the struggle for independence.
March 20, 2011, Dhaka
Freedom from the demands of the constitution
The emergence of Bangladesh came in the ever-ending political process.
The exact moment of the process, it is difficult to tell.
21st February of 1952, mass upsurge in 69, Six-point demands of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib.
Step by step, self-determination of the Bengalis, autonomy and the dreams of independence have created.
The desire for freedom by the people of the backward is eternal.
Bengalis wanted liberation too.
Not as a Muslim, but as a human.
In the Pakistan movement, Bengali Muslims participated in the spirit of freedom, aggression and persecution.
Bangalis thought the partition in 47 as a way of freedom.
But the rulers of West Pakistan broke their wrongdoings.
There was exploitation, oppression, deprivation, but they had a much more deadly attitude.
That is the denial of equal status to the people of East Pakistan.
The Bengalis were the eyes of the Western regime, slaves like slaves of American history.
The Bengalis saw their identity crisis did not ended.
His nationality was injured.
The West Pakistani ruling class was not a democrat.
Therefore, from the beginning of the independence of fourty seven, they became authoritarian.
East Pakistan was their new colony.
Their embarrassment never dampened on what emphasis they would give to the people in the constitution.
They spent nine years to compile the first constitution.
It may be said that  of the fourty seven's August 15 was the start of logical consequence of the beginning of the March 26, 1971.
That is why Mountbatten saw the birth of Bangladesh, the word was publicized.
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib was involved with the Pakistan movement.
Many people tried to hide this saying.
It's useless.
Disadvantaged Bengali Muslims had no tension in religious country 'Pakistan'.
Thousands of miles away, there was never any cultural, social or political ties with that society.
Religious ties in the world civilization are the worst
Nobody was tied in this bond.
Bengali did not even tied.
The first contradiction and protests were about the constitution.
Qayed Azam Jinnah's 'typewriter', Congress's shamelessness started to break new born Pakistan.
Why was the historic election of 1970 happened?
Often a conceptual error or carelessness is noticed.
It is said with great emphasis that, Mujib wanted to be the undivided Pakistani Prime Minister, or not.
In the meeting of Mujib-Yahya in March 1971, it also got a lot of emphasis on 'transfer of power'.
But none of this is right.
Many said that the Awami League did not have the mandate to create a 72's Constitution.
There was a need and election of the Constituent Assembly
There was also a misunderstanding.
Actually Bangladesh's independence came from the constitution.
There is no comparison in world history also.
From 1947 to 1956.
Westerners could not fix how many provinces would be in Pakistan.
Making five were logical.
If there were five, East Pakistan would be the largest province.
So they made a crippling constitution in 1956 by making two provinces .
They were not satisfied at all.
Because of them 58 constitutional accidents happened.
East Pakistan could not be satisfied with the constitution.
General Yahya canceled the parliament and the constitution.
Under the LFO, the election of 70 happened.
His goal was to create a new constituent assembly and constitution.
The first poing of SIX-points was about constitution.
It was said that the constitution must be approved to form the Federation alone on the basis of Lahore's proposal.
But Yahya-Bhutto was not willing to do that.
The tune was one.
Prevent East Pakistan.
Had it been successful in the negotiation of the March 1971, then Mujib or Bhutto could not have been the Prime Minister.
Regular assembly was not possible.
Because the creation of a new constitution was declared objective.
So in our national life the significance of March 26 is immense.
Unique.
Apart from the nightmare of the massacre , 25 and 26 March is in our national life, a political constitutional and historical tradition.
In the first sentence of the declaration of independence, it has been said, "Since 70's election was help to formulate a constitution."
Since they did not keep the promise.
Instead of negotiating, they declare an unfair and betraying war, starting genocide.
So, the unanimous leader of seven crore people, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman declared the independence of Bangladesh in 26 March 1971 for the purpose of establishing law and order for self-determination.
The killing of intellectuals began on 25 March, so that Bangalis does not have people to create constitution and run the state.
Constituent Assembly was created by the mandate of the people.
The Constituent Assembly gave us a new constitution in short time.
So, the freedom of Bangladesh came on the constitutional path.
March 23, 2011, Dhaka
After comitting a competent crime, if anybody wants to file a case with the police, the police would have to take the case.
But in reality, such complaints are often heard, the police do not want to take the case in the police station.
For any reason, if the police do not want to take case, then the case may be filed directly in the Judicial Magistrate (Judicial Magistrate) court .
But the crime committed is incompetent , but a complaint can be filed directly to the concerned magistrate without going to the police station.
Incompetent crimes are that the police can not arrest anyone without warrant and investigate those offenses, prior judicial opinion of the Judicial Magistrate is required.
Which is serious and which is incompetent, it is mentioned in the third column of the Second Schedule to Criminal Procedure.
If anybody takes any news regarding the occurrence of a crime that is not serious, then the officer-in-charge (OC) of the police station identifies it as a general diary, and then send complainant with the complaint to the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate or Chief Metropolitan Magistrate in the metropolitan area and Chief Judicial Magistrate or any specially empowered magistrate .
In this case, instead of going to the police station, it is possible to go to the magistrate directly and make a complaint in writing or verbally.
Or, if the police refuses to take the case to the police station after comission of a serious crime, then the case can be filed directly to the Judicial Magistrate.
Procedure to make a complaint to the magistrate: If you want to complain verbally to the magistrates, then the complainant must tell from top to bottom about the incident and apply for appropriate action against the incident.
After that, the judicial magistrate concerned to examine whether there is any basis for the allegation, and if necessary, if there is any witness of the incident, then he will test them with oath.
He will take his signature of he himself, the complainant, and any other witness, after writing the summary of the test.
If someone asks for a written complaint with full details of the incident in the form of an application, then he will take this type of oath test and statement.
In such a complaint, a complain registrar is registered with the complain register case number or complain register petition case number.
For this,it also called a CR case.
During the oath taking and deputation, when the concerned Judicial Magistrate is not satisfied with the statement of the complainant, or the complainant fails to prove the basis of the complaining case (Prima facie), then the magistrate can dismiss the petition without taking the case.
If the dismissal petition is dismissed, he can apply for a revision against the order in the Sessions Judge's Court or the High Court seeking remedies against the discretionary order.
The complaint is sent to the investigation and inquiry: During the period of the investigation, the magistrate can issue a summons against the prosecution (by issuing a warrant) to appear before the court and order the police to take the complaint as evidence for the crime.
If the police is ordered by magistrate, the police will immediately include the complaint as a complaint to the police station and take the next steps needed for the case.
Again, in order to verify the truth about the incompetent crime, the magistrate can order the police.
In this case, the police will start investigating the complaint and will be empowered to investigate like  the investigation of a competent crime.
However, if the magistrate considers it necessary to investigate the allegation or to investigate further for a judicial inquiry, he may direct himself or any other subordinate magistrate to investigate the matter.
To verify the allegation, the magistrates may also engage local dignitaries in the investigation.
It is important to remember: In the case of the prosecution case, it should be remembered that in this case, the state does not initiate a case before the party.
As the case is filed through the police station in the police station, the state itself suits the case and later issues the case.
If the magistrate orders the police to take the complaint as a complaint, and the state later sued the case for conducting the case.
So, in the complaint case, someone complains that if the concerned magistrate does not appear in court on the next hearing or if the allegation is not proved after the investigation, then the magistrate can dismiss the case.
If the complainant wants he can apply for revision for such a discharge order in the sessions judge or the High Court Division.
Last statement: There is no reason to feel helpless if police station does not want to take a case at the police station.
Under the law, anyone can go to the judicial magistrate court and seek solicitation of the law by filing a complaint.
Most of the time when the helpless and poor complainants  fail to seek the protection from police station in most cases, then they can not reach magistrate can overcrowding the police, due to ignorance, misery and various obstacles.
To increase the awareness of the people to ensure right to get justice, the government's legal aid program should also be expanded in a wide range of areas for the poor.
Author: Lecturer, Law Department.
Dhaka International University.
Russi has three brothers.
She is the only sister.
Home is in Narsingdi.
Father died long ago.
Rashida was very young at the time of her father's death.
Since then, she grew up in her mother's care.
Rashida's elder brother is mentally disable.
Does not have any conscious about the family.
When Rashida became an adult, when she finished her studies, she tried to stand on her own feet.
Took a job in a private company.
Lives with her mother and brothers.
In the meantime, Rashida thought about the future of some money accumulating.
Rashid's brother Md. Harich Mia learned about that money.
Harich Mia then requested Rashidah to buy some of his possessed lands.
Rashida thinks, if I buy the land of her brother, there is nothing wrong with it.
Haricha Mia convinced Rashidah that he is is in financial problem.
So urgent cash is needed.
After all she is the sister, she will come forward in the crisis of brother.
According to the brother, Rashida convinced to buy his land.
Land amounting to five and a half centuries
She gave 40000 taka to his brother because of that land.
Then the year was 2003.
According to the brother, sister agreed to everything.
According to the brother she went to Monohardi Sub-Registry office to complet the registration of sub-document.
Using the simplicity if sister, the brother used to cultivate in this land on lease.
Rashida thinks, she can take the brother's land when she wants.
Like this way some years passed.
Rashida is married.
After marriage, she needs money.
When she asked her brother, the brothers continue to thrive in giving her the control of land.
But he does not let her to possess the land.
Rashidhi is not left to understand, her brother is cheating on him.
Land acquisition does not explain the rushidake anymore.
Rashida became helpless.
Rashida says, 'My brother from same mother.
Looking at his danger, I came forward.
Now he is delaying to hand over the land.
Even threating me and my husband.
I feel helpless and insecure to my own brother too.
Where else will I go if my own brother cheat with me? '
Did you seek any legal remedy?
'Yes, I have filed a lawsuit a few months ago in 107, so that there can not be any chaos in possession of land.
We also complained to the police station.
There is actually no support from the police station.
Rashida said she lives with her husband in Gazipur.
Her mother livs with her too.
Her accusation is that his brother is not handing over the land to her of this land as the present value of three and a half century land is three lakh taka.
In this context, Harich Mia said, 'I did not cheat my sister.
I bought two and a half centuries of land from another person.
This place is not handed over to me by that person.
So I can not give possession of this land to my sister.
Sister is in possession of the remaining two and a half centuries of land. "
Rashida refused that about holding 2.5 and a half century of land.
She said that her two brothers occupy this land.
But Harich Mia denied the words of Rashida, saying, "I have no property in possession.
And when my sister bought she gave me 10 thousand taka less. '
He said, 'If the seller gives the remaining two and a half centuries, I will return my sister.'
Rashida said that this whole property belongs to his brother.
She let her brother possessed this land in simple faith.
But brother betrayed him.
In this poverty oriented family, there is a lot of value of a piece of land.
She does not want to lose the land she bought.
Her brothers also thinks her as helpless because she born as women, she wants to end it.
She wants to get back her right.
Footnotes: There are provisions for peace keeping under section 107 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
It is said in this case, in which case a District Magistrate or an Executive Magistrate receives news that if a person is likely to do any act of any disturbance or commit any unlawful act for which peace can be broken, then why should the person perform a bond, with or without a bail for more than one year, The execution order will not be ordered, it must be said with reasons.
If necessary, without any jurisdiction, the magistrate can file an arrest warrant for the person responsible for the reason and send him to the appropriate magistrate.
There are many steps to be taken in the field of survey of land.
For example, Travels Survey, Kistauer, Khanapuri, Understanding, Kanpururi Kamya understanding, work or attestation, draft record publishing, final publication.
During the draft publication, there may be some misconception in the record.
Draft Publications, which in short is called a DP.
If there is any complaint at this stage, then there is a chance to raise it.
If there is any complaint during any land survey, there is a chance to seek help.
There are objections and appeals in the 30 and 31 rules of the tenancy rules.
If anyone has any objection or claim about the draft published in any land survey, he can file an objection to the government-fixed court at a fee of 10 taka.
This is the objection of the 30 rules.
The official appointed to provide public service at this level is the concerned objection officer or assistant settlement officer or upazila settlement officer.
It is a judicial activity followed by the civil code.
The parties may raise objections to their respective claims by themseleves or by the designated representative.
Sent objections filed on this level to the settlement officer subordinate Assistant Settlement Officer, and the Designated Officer will present the plaintiff by giving notice of the defendant and will give verdict by hearing party and anto-party's statement and offcourse will change the record according to the verdict.
Objection If a party is aggrieved by the verdict of the case, he can appeal to the Senior Assistant Settlement Officer in 31 stipends within 30 days of the verdict and in the prescribed form and by filing a prescribed fee.
The Appeal Officer gives notice to the parties concerned and will resolve the appeal by giving them the opportunity to hear through a delegated representative.
According to the Appellate verdict, the amendment will be corrected.
Law career is one of the most noble profession of the world.
And  have to use the word 'wise' before the name of the people of this noble profession.
That is, by saying 'wise lawyer', the nobility of this profession was enhanced by the inelegant beauty.
So people of this profession will be the model behind the society.
In our current law, a dress code for thses wise lawyers has been set.
In our conventional Civil Rules and Orders (CRO) for the wise lawyers of the lower court mentions in 37 (i) of the rules of the rules: 825 and 826 have been mentioned about the dress code.
It has been clearly mentioned that the lawyers of the lower judiciary should wear 'black-colored plain tie' with black coats and gowns and according to High Court Rules and Appilate Division Rules- 1988-4, Rule 38, has stated in the unambiguous language, 'The Supreme Court's lawyer will wear "white band" with the special collar of white shirts.
So it is clear at once that the lawyers of the lower court will wear 'tie' and the lawyers listed in the High Court will wear 'white band'.
Here the 'tie' and 'band' have been specially separated, where there is no ambiguity opportunity.
And the rules of the Civil Rules and Orders have been started in 826: The wise judges of the lower judiciary will be forced to wear 'completely different clothes'.
The word 'we'll' is used in the law, which indicates the obligation.
But sadly, it is true that despite the clear provisions of the law, it is not practically accepted, which is not consistent with the lawyer's fame and reputation.
Despite being not listed on the High Court, the white band continued wearing.
Again, it is seen that many people from bar Council, which is very sadly, does not have certificate are wearing regularly black coat, black tie and black gown.
Therefore,I hope that lawer organizations will take necessary steps to implement these provisions of the law, so that the general judiciary is not confused.
At the same time, the nobility of this profession does not get scratched.
Zahid Ahmed
Lawyers, Dhaka Judge Court
Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman explained the details of his arrest on March 25 to the US journalist David Frost.
This interview was broadcasted on January 18, 1972 on TV in New York.
Frost wanted to know ... Tell me about that night.
You were arrested.
Why did not you leave your own house but got arrested?
Bangabandhu said in the answer that,in the evening my house was surrounded by the commando force of Pakistan military Janta.
They wanted to kill me.
At first they thought that when I would come out of the house, they would kill me and propagate that when they were discussing political negotiations with me, then extremists of Bangladesh killed me.
I thought whether to get out or stay in the house.
I knew that the Pakistani army was a barbaric force.
I decided: If I die, it is also good, but my beloved countrymen must be saved.
Frost: You could probably go to Calcutta.
Sheikh Mujibur: If I wish I could have gone anywhere.
But how will I forsake my people?
I'm their leader.
I'll fight.
Will die.
Why do I run away?
I appealed to the countrymen: Build the resistance.
(Translated by Sardar Fazlul Karim : Rumir Amma Ebong Onnanno Probondho. p.72)
About his arrest, Pakistani journalist Ahmed Salim wrote, According to Major Tikka Khan's ADC Major.SG Jilani said that, after the arrest, Sheikh Mujib was kept in Dhaka Cantonment (according to Brig ZA Khan, who led the operation to Mujib's arrest), he was arrested and brought to a room of the Assembly building.
Where he was kept during the Agartala conspiracy case).
We were afraid that any foreign state, especially India, could try to help him escape.
His position was kept secret and he was not kept in one place.
The system of sending him to West Pakistan was canceled twice, fearing that the news had been trafficked in India.
And in mid-air the aircraft can chase India.
A journalist asked Tikka Khan, why did you arrest Sheikh Mujib?
Tikka Khan replied, "My co-ordination officer came running with a three-band radio and said, 'Sir, listen!
Sheikh Saheb is declaring independence.
And I myself heard the announcement of that freedom in a special frequency radio.
... so there was no alternative but to arrest him.
The journalist asked, "If Sheikh Mujib went to India with Tajuddin Ahmad, what would you do in that case?"
"I know very well that a leader like Mujib will not give up his people.
I used to find him in the entire Dhaka city and did not keep a house out of the search.
I had no intention of arresting Tajuddin or other leaders like him.
That is why they could leave Dhaka easily. "
Source: Mofidul Huq Translation: Sheikh Salim's 'Pakistaner karagare Sheikh Mujiber Bondi jibon'.
In mid February, Governor of Eastern Pakistan and military law administrator Lieutenant J. Sahebzada Yaqub Khan made a plan to control the situation in East Pakistan.
It was named Operation Blitze.
But he did not agree to use military force to repress the Bengali.
He resigned on 5 March.
Two days later, his successor, Balochistan's Butchery General Tikka Khan joined.
On 16 March, General Rao Farman Ali and General Khadim Hossain was ordered to create a new blue plan.
On March 18, they made a detailed plan of operation searchlight.
General Rao identified Operations extent, conditions of success etc. and General Khadem Hossa Raja identified the responsibility and duties of different Brigades and units.
The fundamental aspects of this operation were:
Attack will be organized in all important cities.
The attack will be conducted at night.
As much as 60 percent of the soldiers in East Pakistan are Bengali, so the matter of operation will remain as far as possible to keep secret till the last moment.
With Pakistan, all important communications of the outside world (including sky, waterways) will be disconnected.
The radio system will be occupied and all programs will be conducted by the Marshall Law Authority.
Important Awami League leaders will be arrested.
The hostels of Dhaka University will be searched for mischief and weapons.
Military operations in East Pakistan will not be run by the direction of civil administration, as all civil administration is inaccessible, but this operation will be conducted under the control of the direct military force, considering civil war.
The Bengali soldiers in different cantonments will be disarmed.
To write this plan, two general used the  light blue official pad, and the writing works done with pencils.
There were 16 paragraphs in this five-page plan.
The plan mentioned name of 16 people, who have to be arrested.
On 19th March General Tikka Khan approved this blueprint.
On March 24, Yahya was convinced that Sheikh Mujib did not agree to give any concessions regarding the rights of Bengalis.
So he gave final approval to implement Operation Searchlight.
On March 25, all the formalities were announced in the evening, the operation would start sometime after one o clock at night.
At eight o'clock in the night, Yahya silently left Dhaka.
Bhutto was still in Hotel Intercontinental.
At 11pm, the army started spreading in the city.
In the middle of the night, the people of Dhaka woke up in the sound of bullets.
Hundreds of innocent people became martyred in sleep.
The beginning of Pakistan's partition or the labour pain of birth of Bangladesh.
From the article of Colonel Muhammad Lutful Huq.
One eraman came in 1971, from the formation of government  to the whole of the liberation war, who played a unique role.
Who has taken the country out of the party in his own heart;
Who has overcome all adversity and made the dream of independence in reality.
He was Tajuddin Ahmad.
On the night of 25 March Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib, the main leader of the independence movement, was arrested by the Pakistani army.
Although he was asked to leave the colleagues to go into hiding, he stayed in the 32nd house, from which the entire country was operated from March 1 to 25.
He feared that if the Pakistani army would not get him and burn the entire city.
Tajuddin Ahmed had fixed his mind while in the meeting with Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on April 3, Delhi that, there is no alternative to forming a law-enforced government to succeed in the struggle.
Without government formation, external assistance will not be available.
The question of how the government will be formed, who will be in that government, was not unknown to the wise politicians.
During the non-cooperation movement in March, Bangabandhu formed a high command with the president, general secretary and four vice-presidents.
Tajuddin Ahmed decided that they would be the head of the government.
Returning from Delhi, he went out in search of the other central leader of the party, some of whom had reached Calcutta.
It can be said on April 10, that the government of independent Bangladesh under the leadership of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman was formed in his solo initiative.
In the absence of Bangabandhu, Syed Nazrul Islam became acting Acting President and Prime Minister was Tajuddin Ahmad.
The other members of the government were Captain Mansur Ali (Finance), Khandaker Mushtaq Ahmad (Foreign Affairs and Law and AHM Kamruzzaman (Home, Relief and Rehabilitation).
Tajuddin Ahmad was mostly opposed in the formation of this cabinet from the youth leadership of the Awami League.
They demanded that the formation of the revolutionary council should conduct the war of liberation.
But it would not acceptable in the international arena.
In particular, democratic countries would look at this kind of structure with suspicion.
The main argument for the independence of Bangladesh was the refusal of the Pakistani ruling regime in handing over power to the elected representatives.
In that case, the formation of government with the elected representatives was the best way.
Most of the elected representatives (national and provincial councils) are not convinced of Tajuddin Ahmed's leadership, but they were compelled to accept his unanimous argument.
In this case, the person who has supported him silently and straightforwardly, he was Syed Nazrul Islam.
In fact, in the absence of Bangabandhu, the youth leaders wanted to take control of the war in their own hands together.
They also had strong objections to add any person outside the Awami League to the organizational process of liberation war.
But Tajuddin Ahmed did not heed to people's tale of all the ways and opinions of the government and military structure of the Mujibnagar government.
Although late, the formation of the All-Party Advisory Council was a sign of his political visionary.
There are official declarations of independence of only two countries on earth - Bangladesh and the United States.
Along with forming a six-member government on April 10, the declaration of independence was also issued.
The next day, on 11 April, prime minister of Bangladesh Tajuddin Ahmed, gave a speech to the people of the country, which was broadcast several times from radio.
The people of this country and abroad first came to know that a law-abiding government has been formed in order to conduct the liberation movement of Bangladesh.
In this speech, Tajuddin Ahmad said, "Today, Pakistan is dead and buried under the body of the dead and innumerable people.
... seven and a half million Bengali people  with unimaginable courage and bravery gave birth to independent Bangladesh and every day thousands of Bangali are redeeming country with blood.
No nation can destroy this new force. '
The independent government of Bangladesh was formed.
Where is this government, how they are working, there should be a reliable evidence.
The government of Pakistan was propagating that the government does not exist;
That was the only Indian campaign.
That is why it is necessary to show that the independent government of Bangladesh was working on the soil of Bangladesh.
It was chosen as the place to take oath in Amarkanan of Baidyanathtala in Kushtia district on the border of West Bengal.
India on three sides of the area.
So there was no fear of Pakistani air strikes.
Coming to the Calcutta Press Club on April 16, two representatives of Bangladesh government Abdul Mannan and Amirul Islam invited the journalists to attend the oath taking ceremony.
They were told that the car will start from the press club at 8am the next morning.
No one was told where to go.
During the scheduled time, the carriage of journalists came to Baidyanathtala.
Before that, came the representative of Bangladesh government, members of the national and provincial councils, government officials.
The Chief of the War of Liberation Colonel (Retd) Ataul Ghani Osmani also came.
Then came the members of EPR and Ansar Bahini.
There were thousands of people from nearby areas.
At first the Qur'an was recited.
Then the national flag of Bangladesh was hoisted.
The local 4 young people sang 'My Sonar Bangla I love you ...'
Chief Whip of the National Council, Professor Yusuf Ali Muhurmu conducted the proclamation of the declaration of independence by stating slogans and cribs.
After taking oath, the acting President of the newly formed state addressed themseleves and the Prime Minister read an eight-page statement to the reporters.
They called for the support of the world in the liberation movement of Bangladesh.
Then Tajuddin Ahmed responded to various questions of journalists.
Journalists wanted to know, where is the capital of Bangladesh?
In response, he said, 'Mujibnagar.'
Mujibnagar was the first capital of independent Bangladesh;
it was meant in literal and metaphor-in two senses.
The government has operated all of their war-time activities in this Mujibnagar for nine months.
Has taken short, medium and long-term plans for the formation and development of the country.
On April 17, one of the many shines in the long path of Bangladesh's independence struggle, which is shining like stars.
Independent Bangladesh's first official oath taking day.
March 23, 2011, Dhaka
Mujibnagar, Bangladesh
April 10, 1971
Since the free election was held in Bangladesh from the 7th of December 1970 to the 17th of January, 1971, to election of representatives to formulate a constitution,
As the people of Bangladesh elected 167 Awami League leaders among 169 representatives in this election,
As the purpose of making the Constitution, General Yahya Khan called upon the elected representatives of the people to join the 3rd March 1971,
Since this convened council is suspended for a period of voluntary and illegal expulsion,
As the Pakistani authorities declare an unjust and tragic war instead of keeping their promises and continuing to discuss with the representatives of Bangladesh,
Because in view of such treacherous behavior, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the undisputed leader of seven million people of Bangladesh, declared independence to keep the rights of the people of Bangladesh in Dhaka on March 26, 1971  and urged the people of Bangladesh to protect the dignity and integrity of Bangladesh,
Since the Pakistani authorities operated brutal war; among others, unprecedented crimes and genocide and other numerous crimes against civilians and unarmed people and are still continuing,
Since the Pakistani authorities started the unlawful war, committed genocide and did the repressive activities made the representatives of Bangladesh impossible to sit together to write a constitution and form a government.
Because the people of Bangladesh have established their effective authority on the land of Bangladesh through their heroism, courage and revolutionary revival.
Therefore, we have elected the elected representatives of Bangladesh, the right to the highest power of Bangladesh, to form a mass assembly by ourselves in order to protect the dignity of the authority given to us by the people,
Interacting with each other, and
To ensure equality, human dignity and social justice for the people of Bangladesh,
I declared the establishment of Bangladesh as the sovereign patriarchy and hereby firmly supporting and ratifying the independence declared by Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman,
It is hereby decided to firmly declare that until the constitution is made, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman will be the President of the Republic and Syed Nazrul will be the Deputy President of the Republic ,
The President shall be the Commander of all the Armed Forces of the Republic,
All executive and legislative powers will be exercised with the powers of displaying forgiveness,
A Prime Minister shall be entitled to recruit and appoint the other necessary ministers in his consideration;
Shall be entitled to taxation and money-laundering power,
The Constituent Assembly shall be entitled to the calling of him and will have fundamental power to break,
All other activities needed to provide a systematic and fair government to the people of Bangladesh can be done.
We are also taking the decision if the president of the people of Bangladesh ramins absence or unable to take over his office or the power to exercise his power for any reason, the Vice President shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities conferred hereon on the President, and he shall apply it And will do it.
We are also making more decisions that we are committed to the responsibility of the United Nations as part of the responsibility and to implement the United Nations Charter.
We are also taking further decisions that this declaration of independence will be deemed to have come into force on 26th March 1971.
We are also deciding that  we have appointed Professor Yusuf Ali as our authorized representative to implement this document and tak oath of the president and Vice-president.
Professor Yusuf Ali
The power of the Constituent Assembly of Bangladesh
Under competent empowered representative 
Published on April 10, 1971 in Mujibnagar and decreed and published on May 23, 1972 in an additional number of Bangladesh Gazettes.
On April 9, Tajuddin accompanied Amir ul Islam to an old Dakota plane to find out the remaining members of the proposed cabinet members.
Tajuddin reached Agartala along with Captain Mansur Ali, Abdul Mannan and Syed Nazrul Islam crossing on the way to Maldah, Balurghat, Siliguri, near Rupsa (near Dhuburi) and Silchar on 11th April (Personal Interview, Tajuddin Ahmed, and Sheridan Chattopadhyay).
Khandaker Mushtaq Ahmed and Colonel Osmani were waiting in Agartala.
After many rounds of discussion and debate in different phases within two dats, finally the structure and volume of the proposed Cabinet were passed.
However, in order to reach this agreement, some important changes were made to the cabinet capacity.
Later, on 17 April, the constitutional authority of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, the power of making the law, the power of the chief commander, even power of appointing the prime minister and the cabinet members, were transfered to vice president from president due to his absence and the declaration of independence happened in 26th march was mentioned.
In the absence of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and especially in the absence of any decision about the next leadership and the leadership of the Awami League, where it was unanimous; and then forming a cabinet was certainly a great political progress.
New Cabinet After coming to Kolkata from Agartala, one of the main attempts to present the new government in such a way to the world that it could be possible to collect diplomatic recognition from different countries.
On 17th April, the newly inaugurated cabinet inaugurated a public swearing-in ceremony held on the outskirts of Bangladesh, on the outskirts of Meherpur subdivision of Kushtia, on the outskirts of Meherpur subdivision, which is named after 'Mujibnagar'.
The armed rebellion of Bengal was deemed in the majority.
In view of the rapid expansion of the Pakistani army, the fall of the entire Bangladesh was almost complete, hoping for diplomatic recognition from different states had been deemed due to uncertain time.
In spite of the spontaneous resistance of Bengal deemed in the face of Pakistan's killings, arson and barbarism for more than three weeks, despite the time delay, Bangladesh took correct political steps to implement its stated independence through the formation of cabinet.
Source: Mainstream '71, UPL, Dhaka
Formal debut
After returning to Calcutta and we were thinking of preparing for the official oath taking ceremony.
We decided that this event will be done through a press conference and within the borders of Bangladesh.
Confidentiality was highly protected on April 17th.
... I and Mr. Mannan  went to the Calcutta Press Club on the evening of 16th.
This is the first time the representatives of the Bangladesh government will make a lecture in the public conference.
The press club was full of people, no where to stand.
The next morning, we went with the journalists from the press club.
... we started for vaidyanathtala
We reached at 11 in the morning.
We already had everything in Amarkanan.
Stage was made.
... The chief whip Professor Yusuf Ali on behalf of all the parliament members,  was appointed plenipotencier and declared independence, Yusuf Ali read the Bengali translation of the Declaration.
Syed Nazrul Islam Saheb, Tajuddin Sahib gave their written speeches and copies of this lecture were given to the journalists.
The government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh was established by swearing in on that day's oath ceremony.
Journalists covered that this is the official introduction or official debut of our government.
The veteran photographer of BUET Nurul Ullah held a photograph of cruelty of night of 25th march in the University of Jagannath University. 
That was the only video view.
Emphasis on his speech:
After the seventh march, some of our BCL students came
They said, Sir we must create a wireless station.
Then they were taket one day to Dhanmondi home of Bangabandhu.
Three were sitting on the sofa.
Bangabandhu was in the middle.
On his right, Syed Nazrul Islam.
Mr. Tajuddin on the left side.
After ending of introduction, Bangabandhu called me in one corner.
He said, 'Nurul Ullah you have to make me a transmitter.
When I go, I want to say something to my countrymen only once.
I will have to give speech lastly. '
We came back and told all the other teachers in the Department of Electrical Engineering.
Our work started.
The transmitter was created.
Although there was no use of it.
At the same time, my mind ticked, if there were any killings, arson or firing, then I would take it to the camera and from that time the camera of the department was kept with me.
On 26th March, I started the camera between seven and eight.
Through the window, I noticed that some boys were brought out in front of Jagannath Hall.
And they are being raised in line.
Then my suspicion grew up and I turned on the camera.
I saw an old bearded man.
He sat down and asked for forgiveness.
By showing his beard, he meant that he was a Muslim.
But the barbarous Pakistani army did not want to hear anything.
He was shot to death.
On the east side of the field, Pakistani forces camped in a tent.
There I saw that they were drinking tea sitting in the chair and bursting with laughter and joy.
The bodies of those who were killed before my eyes and the pictures of their killers were on my camera, the bodies were brought out from the hall first.
The dead bodies were being stored in one place and after they were doing labor work, they were shot in line and shot dead in a row.
It seemed to fall on one.
I think, about 70-80 dead bodies were stored in one place.
Nine months of wartime every day has struck me in panic.
If someone knows, if I get caught up or when someone takes away this,for these I was suffering from emotional pain.
Source: The Banglar Bani, Special article, 1972
Tajuddin Ahmad's first official directive as the Prime Minister was an important historical significance.
Prime Minister's call to the countrymen was:
1. No Bengali employee will cooperate with the enemy.
Each small employee will work according to the instructions of the independent Bangladesh government.
They will work with the judges and use their brain in the areas where they are in the enemy area.
2. All employees of government, semi-government organizations, who have gone to elsewhere, will remain in their respective positions and will assist the government and the freedom fighters according to their own powers.
3. All military, semi-military workers or retired ones immediately join the nearest freedom fighters camp.
Do not fall in the enemy's hand or cooperate with the enemy in any way.
4. Anyone who gives the rent-tax to the enemy, or help them, the Government of Bangladesh and freedom fighters will identify them as national enemies and arrange appropriate punishment for their treason.
5. The communication system, especially the naval agencies, will not cooperate with the enemy in any way.
As soon as they get the opportunity, they will go out of the hostile areas.
6. Black marketers, profits, stockpiling, theft, robbery must be stopped;
They have to be strictly monitored.
7. The villages will  build Rakshabihini in villages.
The volunteers of Rakshabihini will be sent to the nearest education camp of Muktibahini.
8. All news of the movement of the enemy will be immediately reported to the center of the freedom fighters.
9. All the vehicles (government / non-governmental) should be handed over to the freedom fighters, only for the passage of the freedom fighters and war for the freedom fighters.
10. Petrol, Diesel, Mills etc should not be sold to anyone other than Bangladesh Liberation Force or Bangladesh Government.
11. No person will provide guidance for any type of facilities available to the Pakistani army or their agents.
If he does, he must be identified as our enemy and arrange appropriate punishments if necessary.
12. All the soldiers captured by the enemy will be handed over to the freedom fighters.
'Promoted from Swadhin Bangla Betar Kendra and Weekly Joy Bangla, printed on May 11, 1971.'
In the end of June, a meeting of the cabinet was held in the chairmanship of Prime Minister Tajuddin Ahmad.
Here it is decided that for the purpose of administrative and strategy, the battleground will be divided into several regions or sectors.
The cabinet ordered the Chief General Colonel Osmani to take necessary action.
Chief General Colonel Osmani convened a meeting of sector commanders from 11 to 15 July.
The meeting was held at Kolkata 8, Theater Road.
In addition to the Sector Commander in the meeting, staff officers of the headquarters and the Civil Affairs Advisers of the sector also joined.
Although most of the time, in the last minute, almost all the sector commanders and civil affairs advisers came to Calcutta in time.
However, commander in sector 5 and 10 and civil advisors of sector 1, 5 and 7 were absent on the first day.
Before the start of the meeting, a number of policy-making letters were circulated from the headquarters of Bangladesh Army between 28-30 June.
These letters were predominant in the agenda of the meeting.
Some of the sector commanders coming in the meeting proposed the formation of a war council to speed up the liberation war and establish a single leadership in the war.
Upon the appointment of Colonel Osmani in the post of the Minister of State, the head of the war council was appointed.
In addition, seven military members were proposed in the Council.
Most of the sector commanders seem to favor this proposal.
Major Ziaur Rahman took a strong position for this proposal, but Major Khaled Mosharraf opposed it.
Colonel Osmani resigned from the post of chief commander at the start of the meeting, considering war council as a threat to his sole leadership.
As a result, the Chief General was absent in the meeting on the initial day.
The country's Prime Minister, Tajuddin Ahmed, presided on the first day, due to the unpleasant incident of the beginning, the discussion was not prolonged on that day and the prime minister spent a lot of time in conforming to Col. Osmani and withdrawing the resignation.
At the beginning of the meeting, a number of sector commanders mentioned that they did not get the papers published on 28 June.
After the start of the embarrassing situation of the start of the meeting, the meeting began properly.
Sector Commander discusses the various successes, problems and plans of their respective areas in the meeting.
The meeting ended on July 15 after meeting for five days in a row.
On 15th July, sector commanders met with the temporary President Syed Nazrul Islam and Prime Minister Tajuddin Ahmed and formally took oath of allegiance to Bangladesh government.
In the cabinet of 17 July, the chief commander presented a report of the sector commanders meeting.
The proceedings of the meeting on August 6 were disseminated, but many decisions taken in the meeting were disseminated in separate letters in July before the release of the proceedings such as sector borders, mass organizations and arms, guerrilla warfare etc.
This was the only highest military meeting during the war, the sector commanders meeting was later held on January 11, 1972, after the country became independent.
By the end of March, independence war started separately in Bangladesh, due to various reasons it was not organized under single leadership.
In the middle of April the Bangladesh army was formed, but the center's authority or leadership in the field war was limited to paper and pen.
Initially, the resistance started to diminish.
In the absence of single leadership, heavy weapons, improved communication system, the armed war continued to decline and at one stage almost became stagnant.
During the liberation war, senior officials of the Armed Forces divided Bangladesh in several military regions.
In June, the number of regions gradually reaches four to nine.
Region commanders themselves set the limits of the region.
Although there was no specific name in the area, it was known in the area where they were working, such as Chittagong region, Sylhet region, Rajshahi region etc.
The Bangladesh Army's headquarters agreed to it.
Indian forces formed eight sectors to co-ordinate with the developing regions, which were named after the English alphabet, such as A, B, C, D, E, E (1), F. J. Sector.
Since June, the areas of Bangladesh forces were known as sectors.
Regardless of their own radio system, the regions were contacted by the Indian sector related to the Bangladesh Army's headquarters.
As a result, the effective leadership of the center was not established, the areas were deprived of the decision of the center at the right moment.
In addition, the zones could not adjust themselves too.
Regarding the freedom fighters, there was no coordination between the zones and the various organizations regarding the acquisition of new warriors, their training.
There was sometimes misunderstanding due to lack of transparency in the areas of communication, transactions, etc. with the civil administration.
Several armed groups or forces were growing or active in areas under the control of Bangladesh forces.
These forces did not coordinate their activities with the region.
Many of them continue to disobey the government order.
In all, uncertainty, fear, distrust, etc. among the political parties, armed forces and the other parties participating in the liberation war continued to grow.
In the absence of coordination and policy, various problems started in inter-regional relations.
The success of any war depends largely on effective order-control and receipt of necessary weapons.
After three months of independence, the war zone was gradually going out of control due to the lack of arms and logistics expected from Indian forces or any other place.
In April and May, the raiders were able to deploy five military divisions, including the artillery and arsenic in Bangladesh.
In early May, after the initial losses, the raider forces increased their own strength and gradually established their occupation throughout Bengal.
In such a situation, it is necessary to decide on the principles of armed war for the Bangladesh army, setting boundaries and leaders of different sectors, arms and other resources for warfare, and finally establishing central leadership.
The topic was discussed in the June cabinet.
It was decided that a meeting will be organized with sector commanders and concerned people.
The date of the meeting is scheduled for 11 to 15 July.
December 12, 2011, Dhaka
What was discussed in the meeting of the Sector Condor Meetings was later disseminated in the upcoming meetings and with the help of multiple policies.
Though many things were discussed in the meeting, not all were included in the proceedings.
In the important consideration, 27 subjects were included in the proceedings.
Here are some of the few significant ones below:
A sector with many companies will be formed.
The sector number will be determined based on the sector and the responsibility of the sector.
The responsibilities and operations of the sector are determined in the meeting.
The boundaries of the sectors were determined and through the most secret letter on July 18, it was informed to all concerned.
It is instructed that one sector will not operate in other sectors.
All the soldiers in the soldiers must make a list of aircraft, navigators, artisans, signals etc., so that these forces can be formed by them.
There will be no involvement of the Bangladesh army with the youth camp.
The youth camp will manage the different organizations of the government.
There is a detailed discussion on the structure of the mass mobilization, the work of practice, the procession etc.
On July 25, a 10-page letter about the organization of the Ganabahini's arms, dress, tactics, and self-relinquishment was issued.
Further decisions made in this paper are sent to all sectors on July 27 and 31.
Wireless communication between the Headquarters and the sector will be protected through the Indian sector.
If the Indian sector headquarters and the Bangladeshi sector headquarters are not in one place, there will be radio communication between them.
Various types of decisions were taken regarding the salary, dress, ration and medical care of the freedom fighters in logistics and administrative matters.
Source: Bangladesh's War of Independence, Sector Based History, Ministry of Liberation War Affairs, Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, (2004).
Bangladesh Liberation War document: 10th volume, Ministry of Information, Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, (1982).
Bangladesh Liberation War, Army, Education Directorate, (2007).
In exchange for millions of lives, Rafiqul Islam, Bir Uttam, (2006).
Mainstream '71, Mueedul Hassan, (2008).
Teliipara conference
Officers of 1st April and 4th East Bengal Regiment attended in the Tea garden in Teliaepara (Habiganj) for determining and coordinating the next duties.
In the afternoon, the Border Security Force (BSF) of India, Eastern Regional Director General Brigadier VC Pandey met them.
Bengali officers came to know about Brigadier Pandey's and 8 East Bengal Regiment location from Col. MAG Osmani (Retd) .
They decided that on April 4, all the military officers of the area, including Colonel Osmani, will meet in Teliapara and discuss the next task.
Colonel Osmani in Agartala by Brigadier Pandey and 8 East Bengal in Ramgarh  were informed about the discussion.
On 4 April, a meeting in the Banglo of manager's of Teliapara tea garden was started in the morning.
Col. MAG Osmani, Lt. Colonel Salahuddin said. Reza, Leigh. Major Abdur Rab, Major Ziaur Rahman, Major KM Shafiullah, Major Khaled Mosharraf, Major Kazi Nuruzzaman (Retd), Major Nurul Islam, Major Safat Jamil, Major Mainul Hossain Chowdhury, Captain Abdul Matin and others were attended.
Besides, BSF Brigadier VC Pandey, Agartala (Tripura) District Magistrate Saigal and Brahmanbaria Sub-divisional Commissioner Kazi Rafiquddin were also present.
The overall assessment of the situation arising out of the meeting and the future course of action was discussed.
It was decided that the government of Bangladesh will not be formed, but for the sake of reality, the freedom fighters will be formed with the army, the EPR, the police, members of Ansar and general armed people.
Colonel Osmani will be the chief of Mukti Bahini.
In order to facilitate the Liberation War, Bangladesh will be divided into four regions, headed by Major Ziaur Rahman (Chittagong Zone), Major KM Shafiullah (Sylhet Zone), Major K. Musharraf (Comilla Zone) and Major Abu Osman Chowdhury (Kushtia Zone).
The meeting further decided that they would immediately pray for India's help to meet the shortage of heavy weapons and ammunition.
This meeting was the first meeting for coordination of military affairs during the liberation war.
One.
During the 1971 war of liberation, the concert for Bangladesh was held in Madison Square Garden, New York, USA in 1st August of 1971.
Pandit Ravi Shankar organized this unforgettable concert with world-famous band Beatles artist George Harrison, to build globalization towards Liberation War and to provide financial support for the refugees.
At that time, the war of liberation was going on in 1971.
Then we were briefly aware of the story of George Harrison's Concert for Bangladesh in Agartala.
When the country became independent, I could get more details about The Concert for Bangladesh, I was so engrossed in the deep emotion, I was inspired.
At the same time deep inclination was also created to collect concert albums and listen to songs.
At that time it was not easy to get or listen to foreign songs.
In 1977, diplomat Mostafa Faruq Mohammad, currently MP, presented the complete Concert for Bangladesh album with three long playbacks.
How many times have I heard the album songs !
There was also a booklet with the album.
It was Ravi Shankar's interview with the concert, some information and great pictures.
I read it with deep interest, studied.
In fact, after reading the album and reading the book, our interest in this increased day by day.
I have collected various information about this concert in a variety of ways.
Still going
I have written about it in many places, still writing.
Get excited about that concert, be inspired.
This is how George Harrison's book, I-Mi-Mine, got bookshop at Singapore's bookstore a few years ago.
This book contains several new information and descriptions about The Concert for Bangladesh.
More about his motivation for writing the song 'Bangladesh Bangladesh'.
In this way, a deep love for George Harrison has been made in our lives.
Two
In February, wife Olivia Harrison came to Dhaka from her love by George Harrison (February 15th) at Sonargaon Hotel .
She said, 'One night, in 1965, Ravi Shankar was introduced to George Harrison.
George had conducted three years of practice with Ravi Shankar
George's spiritual relationship with Bangladesh is developed through Robi.
In the stormy days of 1971, George took the responsibility of concert with the help of Robi.
I have always heard him say that he had to do more for Bangladesh.
Talking with Olivia, I learned that a deep spiritual relationship with Bangladesh was created while working on the concert of George Harrison.
The grief and genocide of the people of Bangladesh was deeply touched by her heart.
Olivia said, "I heard from George, that Rabishankar was upset in the massacre, destruction and violence in Bangladesh in 1971.
He was frustrated with it.
On the other hand, George was busy with his own recording.
In spite of breaking the Beatles, he became more focused on building a new career.
At this time, Ravi Shankar said, wants to make a concert for the fund for Bangladesh.
With this initiative, he wants George closer.
George also felt that he should be employed in this work.
Many people will respond to his call, it was time to organize that concert midway in the middle of seventy-one's days.
George then arranged concerts with Bob Dylan, Eric Clapton, Billy Preston, Rango Star, Leon Russell, Ustad Ali Akbar, Ustad Alla Hata and Ravi Shankar.
That concert starts with George's bonding with Bangladesh.
Olivia Harrison Founder of 'George Harrison Fund for Unicef'
In Dhaka last February, with the help of UNICEF Bangladesh came to see the work of this organization in Bangladesh.
She has seen certain works for poor children and teenagers outside Dhaka.
With the help of the George Harrison Fund, some programs for children in Chittagong Hill Tracts were formed.
Unicef ​​has talked to Olivier in the future of Haor and Chittagong Hill Tracts for the assistance of the children and boys for the boat school program.
This was his first visit to Bangladesh.
Over the years, he has continued the humanitarian activities of his late husband, which will benefit the children of Bangladesh.
Three
When George Harrison took the initiative to organize the concert for Bangladesh, his relationship with Bitluser co-workers was not comfortable.
Nevertheless, he left his self-esteem and communicated with co-stars and friends, requesting them to take part in the concert.
Bitlassar Drama Rango Star agreed in one word.
Bill Preston, Leon Russell also agreed for the first time.
Bob Dylan and Eric Clapton also promised to consider the proposal.
After some uncertainty, both took part.
George Harrison thanked thousands of listeners at the launch and said, 'Indian music is much deeper than us.'
Then Pandit Ravi Shankar and Ustad Ali Akbar Khan and co-workers were introduced.
At the beginning of the concert, Pandit Ravi Shankar said in a short speech: "Indian music in the first place will be there.
It requires some attention.
Afterwards listen to the songs of your favorite artists.
Our sound is not just tune, but there is a message in it.
We are not artists, politicians.
Very tragic happening in Bangladesh.
Based on the tune of the exploitation of Bangladesh, we played "Bangla Dhun".
He created a new tune called 'Bangla Dhun'.
That was the beginning of a concert with Ali Akbar.
Tabla was being holding by Ustad Alla and Kamal Chakraborty in Tanpura.
The big attraction for The Concert for Bangladesh was Bob Dillon and George Harrison.
Excellent guitar played by Eric Clapton.
George Harrison sang eight songs.
One of these was with Bob Dylan.
Bob Dylan sang five songs (There are five songs on the first long play, but there are four songs in the 2005 DVD).
Rango Star and Billy Preston made one song.
Leon Russell made a song with a single and Don Preston.
The last performance of the event was the unforgettable song "Bangladesh Bangladesh" by George Harrison.
At first the plan was, there will be a concert.
But on that day there was so much of a huge response that the concert that followed the schedule, one more concert was done on the same day for The Concert for Bangladesh
Four.
After the concert for Bangladesh, big concerts was help for the welfare of the country in  world-wide.
But the 40-year-old The Concert for Bangladesh has been the pioneer of them.
The Concert for Bangladesh Album DVD has been newly released in 2005.
A lovely set of two DVDs is still available.
It was linked to Oliver Harrison.
There is a CD on the whole song program.
Another CD contains interviews of artists and craftsmen, in which the story behind the concert is highlighted.
There are also some pictures and songs of the exercise.
There is a pictorial booklet with it.
Pandit Ravi Shankar, in the role of this new DVD, said that the concert of the Madison Square Garden is one of the most memorable of all the concerts recorded in 75 years of music.
Eric Clapton said in an interview on the new DVD, this event will be remembered for a lifetime.
At that moment I understood that being a musician was a matter of pride.
Rango Star said, the show was arranged in a unique way.
The presence of audience was huge.
In the book published on The Concert for Bangladesh DVD in 2005, Charles J.Leon's writings, President of the USA, Fund collected from approximately two and a half million dollars from concert tickets.
Income from drama films produced on December 1, 1971, with three records and a 1972 concert film earns dramatically.
In the next decade, these funds were donated to the children's welfare fund of UNICEF.
For these reasons, Ravi Shankar, George Harrison and the artists of the concert, our interest are not faded, not at all.
Rather, it becomes an infrequent source of inspiration.
Every time I see, the first time I get emotionalized, I can see it.
Five
There was a dream of us.
Many times, if these great and world-famous artists could have been invited to Bangladesh, they would have had a show at the stadium with them in Dhaka!
If they could be welcomed in front of millions of people in Suhrawardy Udyan!
Thinking of such a scene for a long time - for the country, for the people who once stood in that country, they are sitting in a huge stage.
And millions of Bengali people are standing in front of them, thankfully.
Pandit Ravi Shankar, Ustad Ali Akbar Khan, Bob Dylan, George Harrison, Rango Starr and many others (many of them have gone forever) have been writing the rich and glorious world of tunes.
We still feel embarrassed by imagining this scene as dream.
Our debt to them is not to be repaid.
Not all debts are repaid.
Those are to be remembered, to be grateful,
The dream of honoring them with their gratitude and the respect of their honor also encourage us.
On February 23, the Prothom Alo was told to honor Tallodabad Ustad Alla Rabshak (posthumous) with Ravi Shankar in The Concert for Bangladesh.
We are grateful to remember him Ustad Zakir Hossain.
Want to do more in the future also.
My feeling about the situation in Bangladesh is totally personal;
Because of this, I myself am a Bengali.
The unusual nature events that have taken place since March, have not begun sympathy for me; rather, it is a strong feeling;
Because I am a Bengali.
Being separated from others, I was directly involved in the situation there.
Because there are countless people who took shelter in India.
They are fleeing with just their life.
Many people have been killed.
Among them there are my close relatives, close friends .
Even the people of my Guru's family were killed.
Their houses have been burnt.
That is why the ongoing incidents for the next few months from March have troubled me.
Had trouble
I was passionate .
George Harrison arrived in California for the work of Raga album in late June.
At this time my mind was very upset .
I wanted to do something for the people of Bangladesh wanted.
I contacted many companies in the United States and Europe.
They agreed to give me a good honor for the performance.
But I wanted to do something bigger, which would provide a large amount of funds.
There will also be public awareness campaigns.
That's why I thought, to tell George a big concert.
If he does not take part himself, at least ask other artists about this, whether by advice or in some other way, will ask.
If we try, we can raise a fund of 25 to 50 thousand dollars by making a big event.
After telling him about the matter, he was fascinated by my sincerity.
I gave Bangladesh-related books and journals to give an idea about the cruel state of Bangladeshis.
Not as an Indian;
Rather, as a genuine Bengali, I explained the situation to him.
The countries of France, Germany, England, Norway, America, and many other countries highlighted the untold hardships and miseries of millions of people of Bangladesh.
After reading those things, Georges deeply pauses.
After that he told me that if you can help in this great event, even if you get a chance to serve, it will be happy.
After that, the work went on fast.
Rango was working on a film in Spain at that time.
George called on him.
He talked with Leon Russell and invited all the famous organizations of the West and East Coast.
He then contacted Mr. Clayen and gave him the business and administrative responsibility of the concert.
Everyone came forward with deep sympathy.
Fortunately we got Bob Dylan too.
He was very excited to be associated with it.
This great arrangement was completed within just four or five weeks.
In such a short time, planning such a huge program and successfully completing it is a historic record in the world entertainment world.
Thanks so much to everyone.
Now I can feel great peace.
The money that has been received through George Bourgeois' music, a presentation of me, a concert film, the publication album - all this will be added to the fund.
This means to raise 80 million refugees and the help of countless children among them, although this is equal to a drop of water in the ocean;
By this, maybe two or three days a day can be arranged for them;
But that's not the main thing.
Most importantly, outside the collection of funds, we were able to give a conclusion about the youth coming to the concert (there were 40-50 thousand young people coming to the audience) about Bangladesh and people are in a miserable condition.
'As long as possible, the effort to convey responsibility to everyone, the desire, the concert was a spark of it.
I think we have reached that great goal. '
Translation: Sarfuddin Ahmed
Two days after the first concert of 1 August, from an informal interview, from the introductory booklet of 'Concert for Bangladesh' edited by Michael Vass, .
In 1971, I worked in Raga album in Los Angeles.
Talking to Ravi Shankar
He wanted to do a concert.
Generally, it is bigger than it is, so that at least 25 thousand dollars can be taken for the hungry people of Bangladesh.
Asked whether I can help in some way or not.
Like I started with such a concert or bring Peter Sellers ... any help.
Then he started giving magazines and periodicals and poaching cuts.
What is the matter, began to understand slowly.
I thought I should help him with the work.
And the Beatleser aspect is that - if you do anything, then do it big, and millions of dollars or not?
I got involved in this way.
After that it will become a 'Concert for Bangladesh', for three months I made it on the telephone.
I tried to talk to people to make the work possible.
Speaking to Eric (Clapton), I talked to all those who worked in the end.
We did a little hardship.
Actually, we could not do a trial in the presence of everyone.
We worked in uncomfortable roles, and we did it.
We set a deadline for the ceremony, in which we have to do the job.
An Indian astrologer said, Happy beginning for us in August.
I got a big day in August.
The Madison Square Garden was empty, we rented it.
Then we did the concert.
I did two shows.
The first concert for all the tickets of the first program was sold.
The foremost means to say, everything was well done well.
Madison Square Garden was heard in the nice.
We got the band productions for sound mix.
Chip Monk was for lighting.
It was filmed by Allen Kline.
The picture could not be done well.
After the first concert under the large white light, we almost boil the condition of boiling.
There was no stage light on stage.
What I wanted to know about the chip.
He said that the filmmakers asked him to keep only white light.
One of them said, 'No, we do not need stage light for filming.'
In his mind, he thought, 'We have got our things, let us use colorful light in the second.'
I think second best in the show-tie.
Lighting was very good, but the filming was not well.
The camera behind the Madison Square Garden is completely black, and in the middle there is only one point of light, nothing can be seen.
Another camera kept on the right side of the building was completely out of focus, the camera had errors.
There was another camera in the middle of the building on the left side of the building, it was in front of it again.
As a result, the handheld camera was in front of the stage and the sound was our only reliance.
The picture you see is the result of many hardwork.
For example, my first song in the film 'Wah Wah' has 12 cuts, 12 pairs.
Of them 12 originals, nine fake.
We were forced to add different shots from different places.
Some parts have to be blo-up (extended) again.
As a result, the pictures of those places are very grainy.
There are many other things, negative things
But the artists were all very kind.
I tried to ensure that if anyone does not like the record or film, they can move it away from it.
I did not want to end our friendship for all this.
This is a big responsibility, but everything was well done.
But it did not happen in the case of the clay.
That did not work properly.
After going to the concert, he went to Unicef ​​later.
Then our lawyers tried to reconcile matters with US tax officials.
They still say, 'We thought you might have done it for your own benefit.'
The money was kept confined for years.
However, we were able to draw attention to the events of Bangladesh.
When we are preparing for the concert, the Americans are sending weapons to Pakistan.
Thousands are being killed every day, but just a few lines in the newspaper, 'Yeah, it's still going on.'
We were able to attract widespread attention.
I still meet those waiters at the Bengali restaurant, who say, 'Oh Mr. Harrison, when we were fighting in the jungle, someone was thinking about us outside, it was too much for us to know.'
Really, it had a good response.
It provided a moral excitement for Bengalis and some Pakistanis focused on them to identify Hitler.
Translation: Sarfuddin Ahmed
3 December of 1971.
In Calcutta evening is coming.
Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi is giving a speech in a public meeting there.
He did not know that the Pakistani air force started bombing nine Indian airfields across the western border of his country.
As soon as he finished the speech, he was informed of the news: he ran immediately at the airport.
After two hours in a Tupolev Twin JetBerry, he took a flight to Delhi airport.
There are two young sons and cabinet members waiting for him.
But Indira Gandhi did not stop there in the car.
The car took him away from the Prime Minister's Office in Parliament House.
Indian Prime Minister sat in an emergency meeting of the cabinet
After a meeting at the end of the meeting, he said in a speech to the nation, "The so-called atrocities committed by Pakistan so much that they have now turned into an all-out war against India."
This is how the military junta, which operates an orchestra for eight months in Bangladesh, organizes the last nail in the dream coffin of the whole of Pakistan.
A twist arrived in the bloody history of the Liberation War of Bangladesh, on December 3.
On that day, when the Indian airfields bombed and artillery firing started at various places in the western border, the final section of the war-operations of Bangladesh-India combined forces started in East Rannagh.
On 4 December, Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi presented a statement in which she announced to stand beside the people of Bangladesh.
On the same date, Bangladesh's temporary President and Prime Minister wrote a letter to diplomatic recognition for the Indian Prime Minister
The Government of India officially gave diplomatic recognition to Bangladesh on 6 December.
Since December 4, the Indian land forces started advancement in four regions at once.
One. East Tripura to Sylhet-Brahmanbaria-Comilla-Noakhali;
Two North of Rangpur-Dinajpur-Bogra;
Three From west side to Jessore-Khulna-Kushtia-Faridpur and four From Tura of Meghalaya towards Jamalpur-Mymensingh
Between December 3 and December 6, the freedom fighters of the combined force were freeing many areas on four fronts, going towards Dhaka.
The diplomatic war continues in parallel.
The Washington Special Action Group (WSAG) meeting led by Henry Kissinger, sat in Washington on December 4.
Kissinger was busy with the United Nations Security Council meeting to present the US proposal for a ceasefire and withdrawal of troops.
In the Security Council session, the US representatives immediately announced the ceasefire and the troops of India and Pakistan returned to their respective border and submitted a proposal to the UN Secretary General to take effect.
But by calling veto to this proposal unilaterally by the Soviet Union
When the Soviet Union submitted a resolution demanding political settlement in East Pakistan and immediate closure of Pakistan, China offered to veto it, others would refrain from voting.
A proposal came from the United States and eight more countries to ceasefire and withdraw the army .
The Soviet Union vetoed it for a second time.
On December 6, India officially recognized Bangladesh.
Under the leadership of Kissinger, the Washington Special Action Group seeks ways in military intervention.
In addition to the US military's military intervention from the north,Chinese military from South and against those the Soviet submarines and conquest of the Indian Ocean, combined forces of freedom fighters and Indian forces took the Pakistan army to the brink of defeat.
The Yahya Chakra, which took place on December 3 from the diplomatic missions in India's formal war, eventually became confused, due to the moral and diplomatic support of India and the Soviet Union towards the oppressed masses of Bangladesh, on the other hand, the successful war effort of the freedom fighters and the Indian allies on the other hand.
On the 16th of December, the surrender of the Pakistani occupation commenced in the last 13 days of the liberation war of Bangladesh - it was fixed on December 3.
Honorable Speaker, According to the news received this morning, the government of West Pakistan declared war against us.
Yesterday evening, the West Pakistan Air Force violated our airspace and attacked many of our airfields.
Parallelly, their land forces fired on our positions across the western border.
Their propaganda is basing the allegation that India has started attacking and aggression against them.
The news reached me, exactly when I left Calcutta.
As I returned to [in Delhi], I consulted my colleagues and opposition leaders and took their suggestions.
We all agree and unite in the determination that the nation must protect the independence and unanimous conclusions that the aggressive hurt forces have to be repelled.
For more than nine months, the military government of West Pakistan has been brutally trampling on the liberation and basic human rights of the people of Bangladesh.
The crimes that are being done by their hostile forces, are vulnerable to violence and are not comparable to them.
Millions of people have been displaced, one million people have been driven out in our country.
We have repeatedly attracted the attention of the world community towards this annihilation campaign of removing nation and on this security threat to our security.
Everywhere people have expressed sympathy, realize economic and other burden on India and its dangers.
The Pakistani military became crooked, because the people of Bangladesh are standing up for such values ​​and are dedicated to the struggle of movement; the forces unable to realize those values;
And those values ​​have been demolished in every province of Pakistan.
As the success of the freedom fighters increased, the Pakistani army became desperate.
Our tradition is not to stand beside the repressive dictators, but to stand by the oppressed;
And that is why their anger is being rained on us now.
Pakistan has expanded its aggression against Bangladesh as an all-out war against India.
We are in favor of peace, but today peace is endangered: peace must be protected.
Today we are fighting to protect the integrity of the national territories and national dignity.
Above all, we are fighting for our cherished ideals and for the sake of peace.
Leigh General Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi served as the Commander of the Eastern Command of the Pakistan Army from April 1971 to December 16, 1971.
A short translation of the selected part of the book from The Betrayal of East Pakistan, published from the Oxford University Press, was published here.
... On December 3, 1971, I received a message from the Chief of the Army (COS).
I am advised that since India is going to attack East Pakistan, I will have to deploy the army in light of the situation.
In another message the same day, I was informed that India carried out attacks at different places in Kashmir and West Pakistan.
... I failed to understand why the General Headquarters had sent us a lie that India has started fighting against us in West Pakistan.
Actually, we started fighting in the western part.
Did the General Headquarters not tell me about a plan to attack them in the West through a messenger a few days ago?
... On 6th December I sent a message about my strategic idea to General Headquarters.
One. Since December 3, the enemy has started an all-out fight, their attack on the front of the east has increased greatly.
In support of the four full tank regiment, eight divisional of enemy soldiers are participating in the attack, along with 39 battalion BSF and 60-70 thousand trained rebels.
The air force is attacking randomly.
Indian air force damaged our communications ...
Local people are also against us.
Our reinforcement, the lack of fill or the reorganization of the position has become difficult.
Communications can also be disconnected with Chittagong.
Then our communication system will be further deteriorated.
Indian Navy has created a serious threat to the Chittagong port.
They are trying to block all the rivers.
There has been a lot of pressure on Rangpur, Sylhet, Moulvibazar, Brahmanbaria, Laksam, Chandpur and Jessore ....
Two. Our troops have been engaged in active fighting for nine months and they are committed to more intense fighting.
They have no comfort or rest.
.. The level of damage has increased substantially in the fight.
Due to not having their tanks, cannons and air shades, the situation has deteriorated.
Rumors are leaving that the traitors changing the side of the armed forces.
Three. Under the command, the current operations of the formations reached the pre-planned defense line.
Take shelter in protected bases: Enemies will adopt all kinds of methods, including immoral methods.
We'll fight till the last blood point and the last bullet.
The CGS approved my strategic notion on withdrawal of troops in the protected bases through the signal on 7th of December.
... on 8th December I get another signal from GS-9112 from the CGS.
It says, 'The activity has started.
Continue the fight as per the G-0907 signal sent on 7th December. '
The word 'activity' is mainly meant to describe the activities of the Chinese.
General Headquarters was deceiving me;
In fact, till now, China has not sent any communication, no signals.
In the message sent on December 6, I expressed the determination - I will fight till the last blood-end and the last bullet.
My strategic plan approved by the Chief of General Staff.
Despite all the hype is with me.
Mohammad Aayyuddin (Bir symbol) escaped from Comilla Cantonment on 26 March 1971 and joined the Fourth East Bengal Regiment in Brahmanbaria to join the liberation war.
He was then working as Captain in the Pakistan military.
He has held important positions in the military in independent Bangladesh.
In 1996, retired as Major General.
The Battle of India-Pakistan started on 4 December.
Ninth Bengal was given responsibility in the Gangasagar area, so that the Pakistani forces could not face any problem coming from Comilla cantonment.
This responsibility was to me.
And the responsibility of protecting the northern sector of Singerbilla with a battalion was given to the sector 3 headed by Colonel Shafiullah.
There was the Ten Mountain Division of the Indian army, the commander of that command was General Gonzalves.
The attack started on 4 December very early in the morning.
I was watching everything with Binocular.
One of the battalions of the Indian Army, named Ten Vihara, was in the left front, they got trapped in the mine, many of their soldiers and officers were injured.
There is a fierce battle on the right side.
Loss of Indian army.
One of them was Brigadier who was injured .
He was Brigade Commander.
He went on a meeting with General Gonzalves.
... However, after three hours of cockpit, the Indian army occupied the entire area.
Then they were looking for me at Wireless.
Then the order came for the 9th Bengal, we should immediately proceed to Comilla-Chora Kazibari.
I had an order for Comilla Route, with Laksham Route, which will now be able to access Comilla Chittagong Road-one by main access to Comilla Town.
I keep some people in the protection.
Battalion can not even come if I do not
Then Lieutenant Harun moved the battalion and left the message to me for the border.
I went there and joined them.
On the 4th of December we crossed the border and reached Kajibari at Chiora in the evening, there was a barricade of Indian Army around there.
They overcame us.
Brig. Bakshi was told that he would go to Chandpur via Comilla Road and get Lalmai access.
I was sent a message, Independent Access will be granted from Comilla Town by Chittagong-Comilla Highway.
I was the Commander of the Mukti Bahini, under my command, an Indian Mountain artillery battery, Captain Jamal was the commander of that.
I'm a battalion commander, he's a battery commander.
With the support of that battery, I will go to Kazilbari on 5th or 6th of December on the support of artillery, in the morning, for Comilla.
The first attack on the way was in Baluthubba Pubdi of Comilla Town.
There was a second lieutenant Aaron.
We do not have an officer.
And I could not find Ashraf.
There was another officer named Shahriar.
Aaron attacked them there.
The Pakistan army moved away, we captured Balutuba.
After reaching Comilla Town around 10am in the morning, I took the position by expanding the defense station to the railway station.
Indian forces came in the evening.
General Hira said, during this time Brigadier Baksi and Tom Pandey were injured.
I grabbed Comilla Town on 6 December.
My feeling about the situation in Bangladesh is totally personal;
Because of this, I myself felt I am a Bengali.
The unusual nature events that have taken place since March, have not begun sympathy for me; rather, it is a strong feeling;
Because I am a Bengali.
Being separated from others, I was directly involved in the situation there.
Because there were countless people who took shelter in India.
They were fleeing with their life.
Many people have been killed.
Among them there are my close relatives, close friends .
Even the people of my Guru's family were killed.
Their houses have been burnt and burned.
That is why the ongoing incidents for the next few months from March have troubled me.
Have trouble
I became emotional about it.
Rotten fish curry was served.
Bed, pillow, mosquito are all stinked and dirty.
The sewage system is very delicate.
Drains are sterile and often stucked.
A medical officer was not found in the hospital at 10am in the morning.
The condition of the 50-bed hospital for the health of about 250,000 people in the upazila is vulnerable in one word.
Around 27 square kilometers of chor of river Padma on the south side of the metropolis has been planned to make a land reclaimed as a modern city.
A Malaysian company has expressed positive sentiment in implementing this plan.
It will be possible to build large-scale industrial-commercial and residential areas here.
He said these in the research session of the study cell at the festival.
Mayor IDEB applauded the initiative by supporting the rationality of the proposed plans and recommendations.
Research Cell member Shahidul Haque Dakua and Rajshahi City Corporation engineers were present on the occasion.
In the 40 years of the partition, only 60 meters of bridge over the Karatoya river adjacent to Arjunapur village in Shibganj municipal area of ​​Bogra could not be constructed.
On November 14, the men and women of Arjunpur village arranged human chain in Shibganj upazila in the morning from 10am to noon.
More than 500 students of Shibganj Sadar Education Institutes from our area travel through this area.
But  many government came-no one has built our bridge. '
In the event of a festive euphoria, the song "3" of Suhrawardy Udyan's Shikha was unveiled yesterday.
Barrister Shafique Ahmed, Law Minister for Law and Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Barrister Shafique Ahmed was the chief guest on the unveiling or inauguration ceremony of unveiling Song-3.
The special guest was professor. Anisuzzaman, Vice Chancellor of Dhaka University Professor
In addition to this, prominent media personalities, senior government officials and prominent people of the society were present on the occasion.
There is a glorious past in the country's public life.
This song was always mixed with the people in the time of change.
There were 71 selected revolutionary motivational songs here.
In 2010, the second album of 'Jagoroner Gan' was released in 2010 with more than 101 songs of the same type.
In the third album of the 'Jagoroner Gan', 40 new songs have been inserted.
Apart from this, 31 songs have been taken from the first and second songs of the 'Jagoroner Gan'.
In all, the third album of the 'Jagoroner Gan' was released, with a total of 71 folk songs.
After the opening of the new album, the festival-day or event was all day long.
In this, several artists from Bangladesh and India, including several vocalists, performed music.
Tanzikar does not have much anticipation at the screen since marriage.
A lot of irregularities can be seen in two categories.
But Tanzika does not revealed about irregularly
This is true but it is not irregular.
Because I have to do shooting at least two or three days a week.
An irregular actress never has such a shooting.
But due to low viewing in one hour's play, many may think irregularly.
But soon we will start working for one hour of drama. "
The names of the new plays are not selected yet.
But every story will be surrounded by the present time, he said.
Marriage has a major impact on human life
I think there have been positive effects.
Although Nirjhor is an architect, he is a media person.
And since we both are performers in different places, so one can understand each other very easily.
Compromise between husband and wife in a person's life is very important.
This is my secret in the favor of Allah.
Presently ATN Bangla is telecasting a play titled Motijheel Commercial Area.
Habib Masud directed the play by Moni Haider.
In essence, this play has been presented as to distinguish between present and past with Motijheel.
The drama has been getting quite well since the telecast. '
In addition to the play, Chainika Chowdhury will start a new series in a few days.
For whom she is constantly taking  preparation.
A press conference was held on the occasion of the World Premiere on Baisakhi TV of 1971 Liberation War based Mega Documentary.
Ahsan Kabir spoke on the occasion
The 1971 documentary was produced by shooting for almost seven years.
For this, about two and a half hundred hours footage was filmed.
Apart from this, a few rare footage has been collected for documentary from various European film archives and other sources.
176 people interviewed for the documentary.
Among them are freedom fighters, survivors of genocide, raped women, people living in refugee camps and witnesses.
The length of 1971 documentary is four hours.
In this two episodes, the world premiere of the documentary will be held at Baishakhi Television on December 16 and 17 at 2:45 pm.
Anwar Hossain has filmed the documentary
Edited by Mahadev Shri
Research, screenplay and direction of Tanvir Mokammel
Simone Hossain Rimi and Saifur Rahman, presenting the Kino I Films documentary .
Munmun stepped into the media as a luxurious star.
Then she wanted to be a good actress.
Today, during the period of time, she is known to everyone as the presenter.
How Munmun is viewing the issue.
'I still have the desire to be a good actress, I will be in the future also.
But now the place of goodness  is divided into two parts.
The desire to be an actress on one side and becoming a presenter is the desire on the other side. '
Although there is a desire to roam evenly in both places, she is not seen very much in the kin 'drama.
Because in context she said that she did not get good scripts.
Talking about her recent drama, she said that she was acting in a play on Channel i.
The name of the play is not selected yet.
And the story is forbidden to precede .
On this side, she is regularly seen in sub-management.
At the moment, she has responded well with the help of 'Amar Ami' in BengaliVision.
I have learned many unknown things from the country's many artists.
Many people told me about their work experience, I could learn something by doing this.
On the big screen and on the small screen, those who were not fortunate to work with, I found them in 'Amar Ami'.
For that I am grateful to the show.
Artists with experience also gave me a lot of encouragement.
Many helped me.
Everyone gave positive feedback.
By this time, I have some different visitors;
From whom some new visitors are being created
But the task is very challenging to me.
The index of Dhaka Capital Market fell below five thousand points.
The index, which has dropped below five thousand points in the last one month for the second time.
Prior to that, the main index of Dhaka Stock Exchange came down to the lowest level of 4,649 points on November 15.
Later it reached up to 5,596 points in 15 working days, rising again.
From the day after, the fall started again.
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina held a meeting with the stakeholders to revive the market gluttony.
During the four working days of the increase under the scope of the meeting, the capital market of Dhaka was rising .
During this time the index grew more than 900 points.
But 'since the announcement of inspiration itself, the fall began again.
And in the continuation of the fall, the index was again reduced to four thousand 923 points on December 8.
In this way the capital market has become captive in the misery of the fall.
Any initiative of any government or regulatory body was not working.
Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE) has completed one year of falling.
On December 5 last year, the DSE general index was at 8,800 points.
After the fall began, which lasted until last Thursday.
In the last one year, investors were demanding the Prime Minister's gesture to make the market attractive.
On 16th, the Prime Minister held a meeting with the stakeholders of the capital market.
Then on November 23 the SEC announced an incentive package.
None of the above steps have helped in making the market upward.
Although there is some improvement in the situation temporarily, any incentive has not proven long term positive.
The Prime Minister's intervention also proved to be fruitless in the same way.
Meeting ongoing with stakeholders one after another meeting
The new chairman added the Bangladesh Bank to this process in their own initiative
That was a very positive result for the market.
But 'no initiative has been fruitful.
Days after the index has lost the index, the participants in share has declined.
In the continuation of negative behavior, the Dhaka Stock Exchange came down to around 200 million.
However, in the capital market more than Tk 2 trillion in the month-long transaction has been done.
Earlier, two more points closer to five thousand points, but the market turned around again.
Meanwhile, on 28 February this year the index has dropped to 5203 points, but it grows again later.
On April 10, the index reached six thousand 556 points.
On 25 May the index is downed to five thousand 292 points.
But, on July 24, the index reaches six thousand 710 points in two months.
But then, the fall that began on November 14, for the first time, came down to five thousand points.
Later, in front of the Prime Minister's incentive, the market was somewhat normal but returned to the fall.
On Thursday, the index fell to four thousand 932 points.
A pre-ceremony was organized on Saturday.
Munshiganj Sadar Upazila Chairman Anisuzzaman Anis was the chief guest at the program.
The main speaker was Islami Bank Vice President AKM Saifullah.
The meeting was chaired by AKM Delwar Hossain.
Mother will come round soon.
Do not worry I'm going to  Shahbagh to buy you injection .
Come home and eat food together at noon.
And if you take only two injections, you will become good. '
Abu Saied came out of the house to buy medicines in such a way as to sensitize mother .
Who knows who will return to his home with medicine and?
His life was taken away by the killer pickup van.
Shahbag Police arrested  pickup van and driver Monir Hossain (30).
Their house at the village of Lakhanagar in Gendaria thana.
Said among the five sisters and two brothers was the smallest of all.
As the elder brother was ill, running the business of video games in the area, Saeed managed to run the family.
For several months, his elderly mother Bilikeez Begum (70) was suffering from kidney-related diseases.
After several days, she needs injections.
As the injection is foreign, it is not available anywhere except some pharmacy in Shahbagh.
Sunday (today)is the day to give her injection.
Speaking of buying the injection, Said left the house in the morning.
At noon, Said was going to Shahbag on a friend's motorcycle to buy the injection closing the video game shop .
A pickup van pushed the motorcycle behind Abdul Gani Road beside the secretariat and pushed them back.
When they were taken to Dhaka Medical College Hospital c, the duty doctor declared Saeed dead.
This incident is tragic.
The injured were taken to elsewhere for better treatment.
Police detained a pickup van and driver involved in the incident.
Abu Said's father Late Tara Mia.
The body was kept in Dhaka Medical College Hospital morgue for autopsy.
Controversy between the two kingdoms of Tamil Nadu and Kerala with the dam of Mullaperiyari in the Deccan, India, has risen to the fore.
The people of Tamil Nadu from Tamil and Kerala are also involved in this debate.
Yesterday, Kerala-Tamilnad- Around 5000 residents of many villages brought out a protest procession in the border.
They protested against attacks on the Tamils ​​in Kerala, in connection with the dispute over the Mullaperiyar river dam.
The police and IGP of the police urged the people to move away from the border area.
The villagers demanded proper protection of the Tamils.
For the control of the situation, Tamil Nadu Finance Minister and CheeseSelvav appeared on the protest.
Two workers of Tamil Nadu were killed in the Iddukis district of Kerala.
However, the deputy commissioner of Idduki denied the news.
There has been a longstanding dispute between the two provinces of India with the dam of Mullapparia on Periyar river.
The characteristics of this river dam are that the owner of the dam is situated in the border between the provincial government of Kerala and the province of Kerala.
But Tamil Nadu - The government controls and manages this dam through a contract that is more than 100 years old.
For this, the dam area has been leased to Tamil Nadu.
Since the dam is more than 100 years old, it has created a great danger in Kerala for its safety.
Tamilnadu - Government has decided to increase the height of the reservoir's reservoir made by old methods and equipment.
Tamil Nadu - produces hydropower from different operated water.
In 1979, at least 25,000 people died in the demolition of the Marivi dam in Deccan.
And after this, there was a great danger in Kerala with the dam of Mullaperiyar.
Till now, the construction of this dam constructed in 1887 by Tamilnadu- with limestone and Suraki is going to begin.
According to Tamil Nadu, it will be possible to irrigate the area  more than enough areas in the agricultural sector of the province.
But there is a strong objection from Kerala.
Kerala started the survey to build a new dam in a modern way.
Miscreants kill a young man in the zone of Jessore.
Besides, three bodies have been recovered from Mirsharai in Chittagong, Kaliakair of Gazipur and Debibbara of Comilla.
A young man was killed in Abhaynagar by throat.
Police Station recovered the body from Baladanga bills of Bashunari village of the upazila this morning.
Since then, his family had to find him.
Two farmers saw Emon's throat body in Kashful's field.
Later, police recovered the body and sent it to the morgue.
Police could not suspect who killed Emon and threw them to the Kashful field.
The police could not reveal the cause of the murder and could not arrest anyone.
Mirsharai police station recovered the body of a person in Chittagong's Mirsarai.
The deceased was identified as Azizur Rahman (35).
His home is located in East Hinguli village of Hinguli Union.
It is initially thought that due to excessive drinking, his death has been done.
The body was sent to the morgue for autopsy.
Azizur Rahman is known to have a son and a daughter.
Police recovered the body of a factory worker from Chandra area on Saturday morning.
He is Sumon Mia the son of Alam Mia of East Chandra area (24).
Police recovered the dead body after receiving the news.
The deceased Sumon was employed by the local apparel and footwear manufactured shoes.
Suman had been trading jute with Kumar Saha for about 15 months with his business partner Prakash.
Then in Tongi Model Police Station , he was run on inhuman physical torture by the OC.
Although my son was seriously ill with the police torture of OC, he was not given any treatment.
I and my daughter did not even get a chance to give medicine and meet .
Inhuman torture was done for two days without giving him any food.
We want to get rid of police torture and false cases.
The prosecution will submit its report on Sunday.
The prosecution took witnesses of two parties was completed on Thursday.
Mahbubul Alam Hawladar testified as the first witness of the prosecution against Maulana Sayedee.
The next day, on 8 November, the testimony of the second witness Ruhul Amin Nabhan was completed.
On Sunday the lawyers of the defendants will question the testifiers.
To this end, the top five leaders of Jamaat will be present in the tribunal.
Later, five were shown arrested on charges of 1971 war crimes.
They are currently in prison.
At the time, they demanded the increment of rate of wages of workers' and job boom.
The mournful notice of trimming was given to  58 workers in Panchagarh's Turag Garment Limited.
Workers got agitated and stopped the work and protested in front of the factory.
At one stage, the authorities announced a one-day shutdown.
There are many workers engaged in illegal factories and untoward incidents happen in different factories.
The workers have been given a mournful notice.
If they can give the right answer, they will not be fired.
In a factory, the workers demanded the rate of work.
The workers vandalized the factory glass, chair-table, as they did not get the demand.
Gazipur Industrial Police brought the situation under control.
After the authorities declared the factory closed one day, the workers went home.
In the two factories, the industrial police was deployed from morning till evening.
The factory came under the control after the shutdown.
The dead body of the victim, Gourango Mondal, who was strangled in a devastating fire, reached Dhaka yesterday.
At 9:45 am, there was news of the death by the fire of AMRI hospital.
Among them, the Bangladeshi citizen is Gourango Mondol.
He went to the hospital to take treatment.
Gouranga's body was taken to Munshiganj from Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport.
Rupees 10 thousand to the Bangladeshi family was given as compensation .
Mamta Banerjee's son assured the rest of the moneyas compensation will be sent to Bangladesh.
Gaurang Mondal died after the breathing stopped.
As a result of the Bangladesh Military Academy (BMA), Indian Army yesterday gave 50 tax-free computers.
Captain Arif received these computers from the Benapole check post.
In June, Indian Army Chief VK Shing came to visit the closing parade of the Bangladesh army in Chittagong.
At that time, VK Sheng promised to provide 50 tax-free computers to the Bangladesh Army.
As a result of this, yesterday afternoon, Army Chief Kewal Singh handed over 50 computer to captain Arif from the Indian Army.
Today, these computers will be handed over to the Bangladesh Military Academy (BMA) in Chittagong by completing all formalities.
A bomb blast was carried out on Friday on Aslam Sikder, President of Jamia Union Chhatra Dal of Batiaghata upazila.
He was admitted to Khulna Medical College Hospital in critical condition.
Aslam's elder brother Nur Islam Shikdar said, Aslam went to the Shikdar's residential project office under his supervision on Friday morning.
At the moment of entering the office, two unidentified strangers saw Aslam throwing a bomb from nearby.
The bomb explodes after touching his two hands and stomach.
When the attackers left the scene, a bomb exploded and they passed through zero point on the motorcycle.
People rescued Aslam in a critical condition and admitted to Khammek Hospital.
Nazmul of Galamari area was having a conflict with the landowning of his brother.
Earlier, Nazmul had harassed his brother more than once in a false case filed with life threatening threat.
After giving threat to Jinnah, the GDO has been done at Batiaghata Police Station.
Many fake nets and marble were recovered from the incident.
Until the report was written, the police could not arrest anyone in this incident.
The body of a Bangladeshi cow trader was handed over to BGB through Benapole check post yesterday evening.
While others were able to escape, Baten Mohammed was caught by BSF.
BSF beat Baten and beat him with stick.
Confirming the death, BSF took the body away to the Bongaon Police Station.
Later, the body was handed over to his family by the Port Police Station.
The deceased was identified as Baten, son of Khairul Basar of Sheikhhati area of ​​Jessore.
After the magistrate Nazmus Shoaib conducted a mobile court, he fined 10 thousand taka for the candidate.
Madrasah Student Oikya Parishad was constituted in coordination with the different organizations for the demands of Madrasa students.
The council was formed in an auditorium in the capital yesterday.
The Sammilita Sangskritik Jote has taken a five-day program on the occasion of the great Victory Day 16 December., four decades of independence .
This information was given at a press conference held at Dhaka University's TSC in a press conference.
On the 13th and 17th of December, there will be various events of the Victory Day at the six stage of the capital.
At the press conference read the written statement of the president of the party by Nasir Uddin Yusuf Bachchu.
At the time, the general secretary of the alliance was present.
A five-day festival will be inaugurated in the central Shaheed Minar on December 13.
In noakhali's Nijhuldwip the news of the firing took place between the two forces in the area.
This incident happened throughout the day since morning.
The number of casualties is not known.
Conflicts between the two forces have been created recently by grabbing the Kal Kalam of the isolated Nijhoddipip in Hatiya upazila.
A few days ago, Kalam Bahini of Manpura took possession of the ranch.
Yesterday the Hawk army occupied Char Kalaam again.
During this time, there was a firing incident between the two forces.
In the Char Kalam area they stopped listening to the sound of bullets.
However, no exact news of the casualties was found.
Hatiya Police Station OC Muktar Hossain said, "We have heard from the people about the conflict in Char Kalaam
However, no casualties were known, and no reliable sources could be confirmed in this regard.
The former communications minister has been removed in the allegation of corruption.
So the investigation is going to be easier now.
His government will build Padma Bridge.
If necessary, without the funding of the World Bank, Padma bridge will be built under another organization or PPP.
He said this at a press conference held at the Prime Minister's residence Ganobhaban on Saturday afternoon.
If his cabinet was not working, it would not have been possible to implement the budget and 93 percent of the Annual Development Program.
If the special one is a minister, the cabinet is working, and if not, then it does not work, it will have to come out of this thinking.
He is happy with all the ministers till now.
There is no big allegation against anybody.
In this situation, he is not thinking of excluding ministers.
The cabinet reshuffle is a routine work, he said.
Torture of ordinary people including leader-activists and supporters of the party has hit medieval barbarism.
He highlighted the success of his government and said that his government is spending all the energy, thinking about the development and welfare of the people of the country.
More than 4 lakh people have been given government jobs.
Many people in the private sector have been employed.
Even those who do not have the ability to go to power in different ways, do not have the power to vote for the people, they can be noticed only mourning.
When Awami League comes to power, it brings reward for the people of the country;
Not like others.
Many people have been campaigning because Dhaka has been divided.
But the government divided into Dhaka City Corporation, not Dhaka.
It has been done to ensure the services of the city dwellers.
Recently, Delhi City Corporation has been divided into three categories.
But there everyone accepted it.
His government's main goal is to ensure better services for citizens.
He is happy if the people can vote in peace.
His goal is to ensure the voting rights of the people.
He is working on that goal.
From now on all the big things will be done on PPP basis.
In this case, the government-to-government or private investment will be done.
Those who invest, they will take out their money as long as they need.
When the BNP-Jatiya Party went to government, they forget about the interests of the country.
There will be no harm to Bangladesh.
India has not started the survey.
The government will decide what can be done when it will start.
Anything that will damage to Bangladesh will not be done in Tipaimukh.
They will not take water from the dam or use water for irrigation purposes.
Use water to generate electricity.
Still, his government is closely monitoring the country so that it does not harm.
Earlier, BNP and Ershad were in power.
Then why did not they talk about Tipaimukh?
They forgot Tipaimukh to stay in power.
But when he goes to Delhi he does not forget the interests of the country.
In the new year, he will visit all the districts of the country to bring organizational mobility to the grassroots, to organize the party.
The Myanmar government has responded positively to her request to return 28 thousand registered Rohingyas in Bangladesh.
In the phases, the unregistered Rohingya who are in Bangladesh will also be returned
During the war of liberation the Pak army killed Bangalis on the orders of higher authorities.
He urged the people of the country to unite in the trial of war criminals.
Speakers and MPs will be discussed in this regard
In particular, the proposal for joint investment in gas and electricity sector has been proposed.
During the visit, the Memorandum of Understanding has been signed with the importance of investment and trade and commerce
Even I think the death of comrade Mofakhakhar Chowdhury Tutu is unfair.
There are currently incidents of disappearance for political reasons.
He did not agree to meet.
We make false allegations by misusing our leaders and then making false accusations.
When we were in government, Operation Cleanheart, Crossfire etc happened.
But firmly speaking, an incident has not happened due to political reasons.
Yesterday was World Human Rights Day.
The government must also include the signature of the Confession Certificate.
After the presentation of the essay, Sumi Das gave details of the disappearance and subsequent events of her husband Tapan Das.
The decision of the General Council was that it would be effective if at least 20 member states were included in this charter.
Accordingly, if the agreed to be included in the 20-member state certificate, the certificate came into force on 23 December 2010.
So far, 23 countries have been included in the charter.
If Bangladesh is under the Charter, then the citizens will be able to get legal protection from being enslaved.
Without delay, they called on the government to bring Bangladesh to the Charter.
The law enforcement force of Bangladesh is involved with such incidents.
Why is the BNP not signed and ratified ?
The Secretary-General of the question said, 'Should have been.
It can not be allowed to continue.
If we are selected again, we will do everything to prevent such incidents.
But if BNP is in power, whether Bangladesh will be included in the charter?
He did not agree to directly answer that question.
Pak army's  morale has been broken.
Only news of victory from different places of the country.
Most of the districts become free.
Independent Bangladesh's flag started flying in Bengal.
This night, after the horrific war in Hili and Khadimnagar, Bogra and Mymensingh were freed from enemy occupation.
Kushtia, Noakhali, Jamalpur, Munshiganj, Ashuganj and Tangail are free.
The war started in Bangabir Kader Siddiqui controlled Madhupur.
The War began among Joint Command against Pakistani Brigade 
The retreat became inevitable for the Pakistanis.
Dingled Paksaniyans tried to escape by the river when they were attacked bon the sky and land  by the freedom fighters.
But the watchmen who were already alerted earlier did not known by the raiders.
So, leaving Pak military clothes, many Pakistanis ran away and get caught in the hands of freedom fighters.
The United States itself will take necessary military action.
The United States could not break the slightest morale of the freedom fighter and the allies.
The attack on the Pak army was much more intense to snatch the ultimate victory.
War is going on around.
Another one is free from our beloved motherland.
On December 1, 1971, people around Dhaka had got the taste of freedom.
The main goal of the Muktibahini was the victory of Dhaka, the center of the country.
With the aim of victory of Dhaka, Bengal's heroic freedom fighters came forward with a modern tank with modern weaponries.
The freedom fighters were moving forward towards waving the flag of the newly independent Bangladesh.
Maj Gen Rao Farman Ali on behalf of the Pakistani army sent a surrender proposal to the United Nations.
However, Pakistani President Yahya Khan is still trying his last attempt to prevent defeat and not surrender.
Understand the defeat, send a telegram to the UN Secretary General U Thant for the Pakistan Army.
It was the offer of surrender.
There was also a request for security for Pakistani army and non-Bengali citizens.
But President Yahya Khan did not try to understand the real condition of the Pakistani occupation.
He urged U Thant in the counter cable that the request of Forman Ali was not preserved.
Moreover, the leader of the Pakistan delegation, Zulfiqar Ali, ordered the protest in the United Nations.
Any endeavor to escape will be horrific.
The Bengali army was occupying one of the many different areas of the country.
And every moment was created the heroism of the final victory of Bengal's freedom struggle.
Recently some authoritative documents have come in the hands of the current writer
Which shows the cover of screen that hides ill-diplomacy.
In a secret document, US Secretary of State George Bush gave a secret meeting with Chinese Ambassador Huang Hua.
In this report, George Bush has presented a very open assessment of the meeting.
Told him on the White House phone that a secret meeting will be held with Chinese on an apartment in 74th Street in New York
Join Henry Kissinger and Alexander the Hague.
Winston Lord opened the door and took me inside.
Soon after, Huang Hua and his assistant came along with two translators.
Henry concludes our overall policy regarding India and Pakistan and said,
This policy is similar to the Chinese.
We modified the speed of several ships in the middle.
We have sent some war equipment through Jordan, Turkey and Iran.
He also said about the help given to prevent the collapse of the East Pakistan government.
Huang Hua gave a long lecture.
Guerrilla warfare must be started if necessary.
On Bangladesh question he explained the background of the crisis, and Kissinger does not have any hostility against India
He wanted to give the idea about it.
He explained the background
We are in favor of Pakistan.
Knowing that Huang Hua's hair will be stuck.
That's pretty clear.
Kissinger was very interested in this case.
Even in many cases diplomatic customs and rituals was not heeded.
This information has been confirmed in more than one of the most reliable sources of parliament.
Without the approval of the speaker, it has been instructed not to provide this information.
Though the opposition was asked by the EC but they did not give the report first.
Later it was given after approval from speaker.
The Chief Whip of the Opposition to contact the concerned departments
Being asked to collect attendance from the office.
This kind of hardship was imposed earlier.
At that time, he took the initiative to dismiss an officer.
On December 14, Chief Whip of the opposition will return home.
When he comes, this issue will be resolved.
Chief Whip Vice-Principal Abdus Shahid, however, did not get any response even though he was called for a tip-off.
There are only accounts of 70 days presence in front of his name.
Who did not come to Parliament for one day in a session.
In the second session, Post and Telecommunications Minister Rajiuddin Ahmed Raju was not in the parliament for a day.
Although his overall working day 130
Although MPs and Ministers were responsible for joining the session, whiplash Mirza Azam was present in the Parliament only during the 76 working days.
Whereas in the Dhaka Division, the Awami League and all the MPs of the Grand Alliance will be seen in the parliament to see him.
State Minister for Chittagong Hill Tracts Affairs Dipankar Talukder was present in all 86 working days in the parliament.
After this, State Minister for Youth and Sports Ahad Ali Sarkar in the position.
He was 131 days in the parliament.
The presence of former communications minister Syed Abul Hossain, who faces the most criticism in the current parliament, has certainly satisfactory presence.
In 178 working days he was in the Parliament.
However, Shipping Minister Shajahan Khan did not attend more than 142 working days in the parliamentary seat.
Foreign Minister spent most of the time abroad than the country. Dipu Moni was in the Parliament for 143 working days.
Criticized  Ashraful Islam's signature of several times has been found in the 143 working days of the Parliament.
Besides, State Minister for Labor Mannujan Sufyan has appeared in the 153 working days.
Health Minister. AHM Ruhul Haque was been found 155 working days in parliament.
Education Minister Nurul Islam Nahid was in the parliament for 158 working days.
Finance Minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith was in the parliament for 188 working days.
Agriculture Minister Begum Matia Chowdhury was most present on the list of ministers.
He has been found in Parliament for the 210th working day.
Home Minister Advocate Sahara Khatun was present in the parliament for 203 working days.
And till the 10th session, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina has come to Parliament 182 working days.
But the presence of other whips, including the main whip, seems less in front of the presence of the ministers.
Chief Whip Abdus Shahid attended 209 working days of the session of Parliament until the tenth session.
The lowest presence is to Mirza Azam
He was in Parliament for 76 days.
But Whip Mojibul Haque was in 228 working days.
Besides, Whip ASM Feroz was in the 211 working days and Nur-e-Alam Chowdhury Liton was present in the Parliament for 190 days.
At the same time, the opposition party is ahead in the lowest attendance for boycotting the parliament.
Leader of the Opposition Khaleda Zia is leading the case.
He was only in the parliament for 6 working days.
Kazi Shah Mofazzul Hossain of the same party (Kaikobad) was in present for 11 working day.
Bangladeshi Jatiya Party (BJP) Andalib Rahman Partha was in present for 15 working day.
However, Raushan Ershad has the lowest presence in parliamentary constituency outside the four-party alliance.
He was only in the Parliament for 49 working days.
Outside, the chairman of the Liberal Democratic Party, Colonel (Retd) Oli Ahmad Bir Bikram was present in the parliament for 65 days.
Pakistan Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani has announced a "solid response" to any attack by America and NATO forces.
He said this at a meeting with Pakistani army chief General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani on Friday night.
It was informed in a statement from Prime Minister Gilani's office on Saturday.
He is good and will be returning to the country soon.
He is undergoing treatment in Dubai due to heart disease.
But he did not specify - when will come back.
After the military coup, Pakistan relations with Afghanistan-America reached the peak of bitterness.
Confirmations and difficult answers will be given against such attacks in the future.
They have stepped up the defense of the Afghan border to overthrow the enemy aircraft.
On Friday's meeting, Kaini told Prime Minister Gilani about strengthening the defense in the Afghan border.
Meanwhile, Pakistan has stopped the supplies for the NATO troops deployed in Afghanistan through Pakistan.
At the same time, NATO supplies are closed in Pakistan for the third week.
Most of the NATO supplies are supplied by Pakistan.
After the NATO attack, Islamabad immediately blocked the supply route.
Besides, Pakistan's Shamsi had tied 15 days to free the air bases.
Whose deadline ends on Sunday.
Zardari is good
When the NATO forces killed 24 soldiers , Pakistan's relations with America were very bad.
But the officials of the country have denied these rumors all the time.
He is good now and is coming home very soon.
Pakistan's journalist Hamid Mir was told on the telephone Saturday by Zardari
I did not want to come to Dubai.
My son, my friend and the Prime Minister have come here for health checkup.
Those who want to escape flee with their families.
But I did not do that.
The enemies are trying to spread the rumors against me.
But the enemies will be disappointed in this case.
In Ulipur, Kurigram, potato cultivation has decreased to the alarming rate in the current season.
As a result, they lost interest in cultivating potatoes.
Hundreds of thousands of acres of land are uncultivated .
In the last year, commercial cultivation was done in different chars of the upazila and on the farming stage, there were about 775 hectares of 1.5 lakh mon potato.
Now the cultivation of potatoes is only in 135 hectares.
Last year, 5-6 acres of land was badly damaged by cultivating potatoes.
So this year they did not cultivate potatoes.
Besides, some businessmen, including Mohsin Ali from different areas, traded commercially leased land and planted potatoes.
They did not come here.
They have been cultivating potatoes for several years.
Some lands also been leased.
This is reason for this that the land of the grazing area is vacant.
For some years they have done regular work in the potato field.
Now they are unemployed due to not being able to cultivate potatoes.
The decline of potato cultivation
The farmers were severely damaged due to lack of proper market management.
So the farmers have lost interest.
If this situation does not change, then he may fear that agricultural disaster can happen in future.
Then the country will been severely deteriorated.
The American think tank, 'The Council on Foreign Relations' expressed this concern.
But the conflict with Pakistan is seen as a major threat to the American government.
The conflict between the Council on Foreign Relations has expressed fears that America's war with Pakistan may be due next year.
US war with Pakistan can be fought by formulating a counter-terrorism campaign.
The survey said that the fear of conflict between Pakistan and India is not very much the same.
The survey has been conducted by American officials and experts.
However, this survey was conducted on behalf of an organization, it was kept secret.
The findings also show that the euro crisis can recoup the economic crisis for the United States.
The current political movement in Bahrain could become stronger
The US government is facing the possibility of a growing conflict with China, the survey said.
The American government can not predict what kind of confrontation or crisis that might occur in the future.
Such surveys have been carried out to overcome this void, he said.
Trying to divide between the politicians of the country is going on.
The defeated power of independence is associated with this plot.
Therefore, the present diseased politics will be free from diseases.
He said these things.
For two years. Kamal Hossain was reelected as the president.
Mostafa Mohsin Montu became the General Secretary
Although the politicians of the country are talking about nationalism in the face, they are trying to divide inside.
Because of them, the defeated power of independence is still excited.
After the 2008 elections, they hoped that the corruption of the country would be eradicated by the reform of law enforcement agencies.
Under the old dictatorship, the attitude of real rule will be established by changing the attitude created.
At the same time basic education reform will be given top priority;
But nothing was done, he was disappointed.
Dr. Kamal said, people does not want dictatorship;
Wants absolute democracy.
'People are all in power' to explain it.
People of Narayanganj proved this .
Gonoforam was born 18 years ago with the intention of ending political instability.
They are still unsteady for that purpose.
They will continue their efforts to free politics from the sickness.
There is no practice of democracy in the political parties of the country.
There is a continuation of flattering rule everywhere.
But it can not be any democracy.
The Liberation War kept him illiterate.
Because of the Liberation War, he could not study more than Intermediate.
Jumped into battle;
And today he is given the title of Razakars.
However, this title does not bring anything to him.
Because he does not care for anyone.
Parliament is not the Prime Minister's own property.
Angry with him, the opposition leader did not go to Parliament and thus cheated the people.
It's disappointed as they did not see it.
Good governance has become a problem alongside poverty in the country.
That is why there is so much division among political parties.
But the establishment of good governance was very easy for them.
Because there are fewer countries in the world where there are so many people of the same language and people living in the country.
Political parties have shown failure in establishing good governance despite the country's thinking and consciousness.
People of the country believe in indirect democracy.
But politicians came to power for five years, they are the owners of all power.
The people's rights are not guaranteed to them.
He stressed on the constitution amendment to ensure this.
There must be representation of poor people in democracy.
Besides, there should be a tolerant attitude among political parties.
The disappointment is that it is not seen nowadays.
Politics is not just for power, there is a need for ideals.
The struggle of those who believe in democracy will never end.
If there is no proper politics in the party, there will not be good leadership in the country.
There is no abstract emblem or politics at all.
The importance of public opinion for politics is to be given importance.
Good politicians are needed for true democracy in the country.
There is a lot of deficit among our parties.
Awami League or BNP leaders will be better in the next three years, will anyone believe in it?
They do not want the army to come in any crisis in the future.
They will work to solve the problems of the people of the politicians.
Meanwhile, the council was inaugurated by the National and Party flag hoisting beside the Institution of Engineers in the morning.
Thousands of activists of Ganoformam from different districts and upazila of the country joined the council.
The land ministry is shunning the appointment of manpower.
They are not admitting the High Court directive in more than 1,000 cases in the fracture of Chainman recruitment.
The High Court verdict on the appointment is correct and there is no need for appeal in this case.
Because there is no scope for the government to benefit from the case.
So it has been decided not to appeal.
Five months after the decision has been made, the land ministry is not taking it.
Rather they rejected the published appointment notice.
Land Secretary Mokhlesur Rahman said in this context, Chainman is a fourth class employee.
In this post, only the deputy commissioner has the jurisdiction to appoint manpower.
In 2004, the Ministry appointed power by issuing an illegal order from the Ministry of Land.
According to the illegal order, the authority to declare the appointment notice and the appointment of the manpower is totally illegal.
No manpower will be appointed in the light of the notification published in 2004.
Rather, the authorities could not finalize the recruitment process at that time.
Besides, there are allegations of irregularities and corruption related to this appointment.
The biggest thing is to say that the ability to recruit personnel for this post has been taken away from DC.
Therefore, this recruitment process has not been enacted and it is not being taken into account.
Later, the High Court Division of the Supreme Court of India passed the petition.
The court gave the verdict in favor of the aggrieved people
But the ministry has been complained that it does not take any action.
Ensure the public right to work in the government and government officials responsible for the government and government departments.
As the authorities ensure the public service available at field level.
In the middle, the common people are deprived of their fair privileges.
The fire started from the basement
For the sake of investigation, they collected a number of samples from there.
These samples will be tried out -to find the real cause of the fire.
The Kolkata Police detectives will also investigate.
The hospital's license was canceled on Friday after the fire.
Meanwhile, in the fire at the hospital on Friday, the number of dead has increased to 90 in the fire.
However, a person named Tripura Santosh Das was not been able to found yet.
He is not on the list of dead or injured people admitted in the hospital.
Santosh Das was admitted to Amari Hospital in Dhakuria on December 1 with severe head injuries.
The resident of West Tripura also has arms training.
But he was missing since Friday's fierce fire.
All dead bodies of Friday's deadly fire have been handed over to the family of the deceased after the post mortem examination.
However, two bodies have not been identified yet.
On Friday, police arrested six directors of the hospital on charges of defamation.
Another was also arrested on Saturday.
This director was taken to the Alipur court on Saturday.
The judge ordered them to keep in police custody for the next seven days.
Earlier, the Alipur court took strict security measures.
The firefighters of Calcutta complained that three months ago, the hospital authorities were instructed to clean the basement.
On December 5, the expiration was over.
Also, the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals' warned the hospital.
They alleged that they were running Radiology department without the permission of the Atomic Energy Commission.
The incident took place on Friday in the city of Amri Hospital in Dakuria, Kolkata.
90 people died and burnt to death.
This is the second highest list of the world's worst fire after World War II.
In the post-World War II, the worst fire occurred in the hospital on July 14, 1960 in Guatemalan.
Many people died in the fire in a mental hospital in the country
Hollywood actress Salma Hayek has been widely criticized because of her open image.
She has been making media reports all the time in public spaces outside the camera.
Salma, who has made another surprise, has done this now.
The actress, who has been under severe criticism for this,
This is his story - widely discussed in world media.
Salma Hayek's strange story is now being posted on various Hollywood-based websites.
He was invited to a TV show as a guest for many days.
But in the past few months she was busy with movies and personal work, she could not have time to do.
Recently he came to participate in the shoot-out in a studio in New York.
And there he appeared in a small gown.
After that gown when he was taking part in the shooting, all of them got burnt.
Salma Hayek did not feel embarrassed about the issue
The shooting of the film was completed in its entire naked presentation.
We came to Naogaon for a techie.
We are shooting now in Gaeyspur village, remote region.
The name of the television drama created on the occasion of Victory Day is not yet finalized.
It is managed by Samir Ahmed.
What's the story?
Here I am a Liberation Warrior.
The entire telifilm is being built in the context of '71.
Very realistic story
Recently I finished another drama on the occasion of Victory Day.
In the writings of Ayon Chowdhury, it operated by Rahmatullah.
The drama will be disseminated in RTV on December 10, at 8-20 pm.
On the occasion of the Great Victory Day, RTV recently decided to disseminate 7 break-less liberation war dramas.
What are your feelings about this?
For this reason, I welcome the channel.
Because viewers can not see the drama for additional ads.
At least seven plays of the Liberation War are now able to see it in ease.
Today the series 'Pundit fair' will be promoted.
The story is about a descendant of a middle class family.
They are separated from the bonds of brotherhood, by greed and animosity;
In terms of reality, some are prominent social leaders, some idealistic teachers, some beggar, and others are somewhat oblivious.
I received a lot of response to the drama.
What is your character in the series 'Akasher nicher manush'?
In the serial "Akasher nicher manush" I played the role of CID officer.
I have finished this series a long ago.
Basically the story of seven friends is the story of the play.
Here are two murders.
Some are lost.
Some of the dramatic scenes of this series will be seen in the later episodes.
Tell us about the recent series that you have done
We are currently playing regularly in several serials.
Motherhood is the biggest achievement for a woman.
Every woman wants to hear the mother in front of the child.
It's going to be very soon to fulfill her dream.
Shweta Sethi has confirmed through Twitter recently about being pregnant.
In 2012, the newcomer is coming across the to Shilpa.
The good news spread through the twitter.
Soon, there was a happy ending with the children of the newly born daughter of Oisshorjo of Bollywood.
This time the fans have started the new curiosity surrounding Shilpa.
This time I was looking forward to being a mother.
That dream is goint to be fulfilled very soon.
I am waiting to hear 'Ma' from the baby.
I want a happy family.
In the life of Shilpa, Raj Kundra had the opportunity to hear 'Baba' 
There is a five year old girl in her previous family.
He is also accused in the case of fraud in the Bombay High Court.
Huge disarray was started in Pakistan in the beginning.
In that country, Barina Malik fell in the face of the stereotype
The matter has also spread to the top level of the government.
That magazine cheated me
I never posed naked.
We have his video.
RTV decided to make an exceptionally special occasion to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the Great Victory Day.
The main attraction of this event is 7 non-breaking plays of the War of Liberation.
The event started on 09 December.
It will continue until the day before the great Victory Day on December 15.
Each play will be broadcast at 8:20 pm.
The country we are living in, the country where we were born, how the country was born?
It is necessary for everyone to know.
After many years, he was more interested in seeing himself in his own self.
Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina attended the second meeting of the Council of Ministers held in Uttara Ganobhaban.
On the procession, the field was filled in one and a half of the rally.
After that there was no place in the field, apart from the main roads of the city, the streets of various streets were filled with the strangers walk.
The Prime Minister arrived at Hanif Ali Sheikh's memorial meeting at around 3:30 pm.
Earlier, he landed in Helipad in front of Sadar upazila in Rajshahi from Helipad.
In the arrival of the Prime Minister, the procession started shouting slogane in the city of Natore .
Every lane in the city, shops, buildings are full of people who are eager to see the Prime Minister.
Wherever you can be seen only humans and people
Apart from the meeting place in the streets of the city, only people and people can be seen.
Remembrance turned into a crowd of people.
Hanif Ali Sheikh was born on June 30, 1960, in Ponditagram under Chhatni Union 6 of Sadar upazila.
His father's name is Hazrat Ali and his mother is Rameez Begum.
He died of cardiac arrest on 12th August at Rajshahi Medical College Hospital.
Although he was a lawyer in the career, he was a social organizer.
During his death, he left two wives, one son and two daughters.
Today on 12th December the Adamdighi Raider Free Day of Bogra
The Pak army and the rajakara also became a target in the guerrilla attack.
At one stage, a number of ammunition was possessed by the freedom fighters.
In addition to the kusumbi with the Pak invader, rail station and some important places the war started periodically.
Several soldiers were killed in this.
Historical Roktodaho bill was a safe place for the freedom fighters.
After the guerrilla attack the freedom fighters crossed the bil and went to safe shelter.
Furious freedom fighters were looking for the Pak army.
At one stage, freedom fighter Abdul Jalil, Altaf Hossain took time to rest
After hearing a rajakar named Jasim Uddin from small Akhira village, he handed over the freedom fighters to the Pak army.
They were tortured brutally
Freedom fighter Anwarul Haque Tulu and Abdul Chattar of Chapapur area were brought to the police station.
The captive force detained four freedom fighters and tortured them publicly.
6 days before Independence, people were shot dead publicly during the day at Adam Sadighi Mahasashman Ghat.
The closed land located in this great graveyard is still not reformed or developed.
In the early hours of the attack around the freedom fighters, the Pak occupiers were forced to flee by the side of the rail line from Adamdighi Sadar.
Pakhnadaras fled via Paikpara village after killing freedom fighter Abdus Chattar
Pakhnadar injures a freedom fighter Ekram to the Qayetpara using the bayonet.
Finally, without any conflict, the flag of victory was declared by the freedom fighters in Adamdighi.
At one point, the Santhara Rail Junction controls the movement of the common people by installing tight guard and issuing curfew.
23 freedom fighters were killed in this upazila.
Various programs were organized on behalf of various political, educational institutions and club organizations surrounding this day.
Tobacco Control Act of 2005 has made significant progress in tobacco control in the country.
But due to some limitations the law is facing many obstacles.
Initiatives have to be taken to overcome obstacles to strengthen tobacco control activities.
Due to the production, processing, and use of tobacco and tobacco products, there is widespread loss of public health, environment and economy.
As a direct result of tobacco use, 57,000 deaths among the 30-year-old population in Bangladesh happens annually.
And every year 12,00,000 people are infected with 8 major diseases using tobacco.
Tobacco companies are dragging people towards this premature death in various strategies
Therefore, in the current session of Parliament, the speakers appealed to pass the amended Tobacco Control Act to reduce the severity of tobacco.
Today is December 11, December, 2011
The speakers demanded the raising of the Tobacco Control Act-2005 in Parliament at 10am today.
The speakers also said that the smuggling tobacco companies are confusing policy makers and ordinary people
They are spreading propaganda to obstruct the control of the tobacco control law,
The demand for passage of Tobacco Control Act to be passed  by ignoring mis propaganda.
President of Green Mind Society spoke on the program
Colonel Sagor Shikdar cooperates with the help of this program.
Most of the attendees were the most familiar faces in Tokyo,
They are supporters of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party.
Although there were political figures in attendance, the main theme of the discussion was to create a new economic organization in Japan.
The purpose of the meeting is to explain to everyone,
The main objectives of this organization will be to help each other in Japan with the goal of business success.
Each member can be the owner of the maximum two shares
Very soon details will be announced .
Its name will also be finalized.
The ceremony was attended by 35 people.
Recently, the first Secretary of the Bangladesh Embassy in Tokyo has returned to work after working in Japan for a long time.
Before leaving, he was felicitated on behalf of the Bangladeshi community of Tokyo.
He worked here very well with all the people while working and happily.
On the eve of the going, he has taken the love of expatriates as his reward.
After reaching Dhaka, he told Vivekananda that he reached  Dhaka safely and safely.
As well as by conscience, he thanked all the expatriates in Tokyo and thanked them.
On behalf of everyone we also wish his good health and good luck from Vivekananda.com.
Success with it also.
Recently, Communications Minister Obaidul Quader said, expectation is very much,low time , way too many, less petrol .
He said that the officials of the communications ministry will be accustomed to Team Work from now on.
Good work will be prized from the ministry.
We have to move forward by learning from the past.
Long-time foreign conspiracies, destroyed railways .
He said, time is very low in my hands.
Even though this is not quite the short time, we want to do some work for the rail.
He joined his office at the Joint Secretary at around 10:15 am on Wednesday, 9 days after taking oath.
Officers and workers greeted the new minister when he went to the office.
Obaidul Quader then held a meeting with officials in his room.
After the meeting, he told reporters in his room, "I have reached the Secretariat after 10 years."
Earlier, in 2001 as the State Minister for Youth and Sports, I went out for the last time.
How is the feeling returning as minster in ministry ?
Players and officials become under pressure in a game.
I feel intense pressure in the publican's expectations.
What to do in the development of communication system
I have been told to have two years time.
I will say that my time is one and a half years.
Because the work started in the election before 6 months of the expiry of the election.
Nevertheless, the development plan will be taken keeping in mind the time and fund.
He said the ministry has bureaucratic complications and long-term.
These can not be easily broken.
But I want to do everything quickly.
On the other hand, the new railway minister Suranjit Sengupta came to the railway office on Wednesday afternoon for the first time on Wednesday.
All officials and employees in the conference room of the railway building interacted with him on various topics.
Once upon a time the railway was the main vehicle of people.
I hope you can cooperate with me.
Suranjit said to the officials and employees, you are no longer the officials or employees of any division.
You are under the ministry.
So your responsibilities have increased a lot.
Hopefully you will go ahead and take the rail ministry forward, keeping in mind that responsibility.
He said, I have less than two years of time.
So we have to work in a short time.
So this is the challenge for me and all of you.
Railway Minister said, I have spoken to the Prime Minister.
He realized the importance of the rail.
He gave me the necessary guidance so that the traditional railway can be manned by the main vehicle.
I can work as much as I can in a short time.
Earlier, railway minister Suranjit Sengupta met with officials and employees in the secretariat and sought their cooperation.
The villages of Dhamirhat upazila are also extinct in the traditional rural carriage of Bengal.
In the evolution of the time, rural car to be extinct but the popularity of using carriage of horses in the current upazilas is getting increased .
Road movement in the rural areas with wooden tires is prohibited.
Due to the increase in the value of rural buffalo, the car drivers have lost interest in rural vehicles.
However, there is an introduction of horse carriage along with van, rickshaw and wheelchair.
Especially in the days of Eid or other events, the use of carriage of horses increases.
In the upazilas , carriage of horses is seen not only for carrying people but also to carry vegetables.
Besides, there is a good introduction of horse car in different upazilas including district headquarters.
In the Nawabganj district of Dinajpur, financial assistance was given to rural women from the Department of Poverty Alleviation Officers in the current fiscal year.
In order to generate financial independence and employment, we distributed 59 lakh 50 thousand rupees among hundreds of women.
By taking loans, members of the organization have found the means of financially self-reliant and rural life-style change.
They once used to spend half-day starving with family due to poverty.
The poverty reduction project brings the money back to their lives, the possibility of a golden day.
How long the country will raise as a developed country in the world!
40 years of independence has passed, and why is not the development of the people's strife rises in this country,
Why the countrymen do not feel patriotic in the country!
Sonar Bangla dream was shattered.
Today, no one thought about the golden Bengal of the dream of that great hero.
The development of this country is behind the vengeance of vengeance politics.
The real people were fake and in the chemistry of the fake people, real country lovers wandered in the dark.
How many days, how many years will the roles of fake human beings reduce,
When will the country lovers look back from dark?
After independence, I thought, this country will be developed as a developed country,
Positions of normal people will change,
People of this country will move freely,
There will be no violence in the country,no murder, and there will be only patriotic mind in the people of this country.
But instead of doing so, the opposite image is prevailing in the country.
He strongly argued,
The companions of the Pakistanis are still living in this country and their companions enter various sectors and establish their rule.
Those war criminals judicial proceedings are to be implemented as soon as possible
Today's promise is to make Bangladesh rise high in the world as a developed country.
Freedom fighter Zillur Rahman's 2 son, 6 daughters, who have passed days with family passing with poverty.
Kashimpur Rajbari of Raninagar upazila of Naogaon district is an ancient traditional monument
It is going to be destroyed due to lack of reforms.
It is also known as Pagla Raja's Raj house.
Some parts of the temple on the north end of the raj house still survive.
Sri Ananda Prasanna Lahari Bahadur was the last king of this kingdom.
She had four sons and one daughter.
Only the small King Prasanna Lahari was here till Bangladesh became independent.
According to the four domes in front of the Rajbari's main building, the house has raised it's head.
Today, the oppression of the local people turns to all about destruction.
Some parts of the royal house are now  being used as land office by U.P.
Hundred bighas of land and pond have been possessed by  local influential people under the cover of the politics umbrella.
Most of them being made using rice stalks.
The government is being spared from huge income tax.
If you want to answer, they have crossed to the name of different political people.
There was no good answer from the Standing Administration.
But this huge property is now confessed to illegal construction and vandalism.
Thousands of ancient traditions are now in the way of extinction.
If the ancient traditions are well-repaired, it can be considered as a tourist spot for tourists.
The palace will be renovated if allocated.
Using the intellectual strength given by the Creator, it is created in the moment by creating the variance of the vestiges.
Then it gradually became completely shaped with the formation and color and a full-blown sculpture.
The time and cost is quite expensive but the price is not got accordingly.
Work recognition does not get heeded.
The relatives, neighbors, friends were surprised to see his creation work at such a young age.
But due to poverty all hope breaks away from parents.
Alamgir made himself self-sufficient without earning money from the school.
The two children have been admitted to the Pathakoli school for the sake of financially.
Despite being a genius, Alamgir, now a sculptor, has to spend half an hour in starvation.
He borrowed money from friends and bought rods, cement and sand, made those sculptures.
In his lifetime, he wanted to survive in his creation by replacing his works in the right place.
Sheikh Mujib's famous speech made in the shape of the sculpture to be set up in Dhaka Suhrawardy Udyan.
Where Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman gave his historic speech on 7 March 1971.
But no support from anyone is lost to Mujib's sculpture which is decaying day by day.
He could not keep the sculpture , and no one would take it.
Pratibha Ujjal Chitra Artist Alamgir once wept for such a painful speech
Which he will never sell for money.
The country does not guarantee normal death now.
The human rights situation in Bangladesh is still a worrisome stage.
Every day human rights violations are happening.
There is currently a time that people do not know what will happen in the morning when they go to sleep at night.
Whether it is able to return safely back home, it is uncertain.
There is no guarantee of the normal death of human life.
Right now women have not got equal rights, did not stop child labor
State initiatives are not satisfactory to stop these irregularities.
There is no real democracy in the country.
Writer journalist intellectuals are being arrested and harassed accordingly.
Those who are holding pen with hard hands in protest of misrule, their pen is being snatched.
It seems to be so painful in various newspapers and TV channels.
No man can behave in such a ruthlessly inhuman way with the worst animal.
In our Bangladesh, such worldly activities are going public in front of the media publicly.
The scene can not be believed in my eyes.
There is no such court system anywhere else in the world.
What are these signs?
The country is in the hands of the bazickers.
There will be opposition parties in the country where there is democracy.
The government's controversial work will be criticized.
They will fight against the non-democratic activities of the government systematically.
That's the rule of democracy.
Since the current government came to power, the opposition is not allowing the rally to organize rally or even human chain.
Not letting the road stand.
Is it democracy?
That is what the democratic government is.
That's human rights.
In this case, it is not necessary for the international human rights organizations to take more responsible role.
According to the report published in the newspaper, more than 220 of the political killings occurred in just one year.
Criminal deaths including 101 in crossfire have exceeded 130
Of which 68 were involved by RAB
But the government did not take any action in the investigation of the killings.
The government is increasingly intensifying political harassment and oppression.
The government has been accused of maintaining a direct influence on the judiciary.
Inhuman torture is being conducted in the name of interrogation.
In a year, 109 people died in police custody.
46 people have died in prison
As a result, the situation of death in prison has been created before the trial.
I did not say that the human rights violations did not happen in the country during the previous governments.
But the deterioration of the human rights situation during the tenure of the present government has also eroded the record of all time.
Therefore, the government will have to pay close attention to improving human rights situation immediately.
In this regard, confusion did not get removed as two governments did not say anything clearly.
It is not clear whether the event is at some stage.
All that India needs, they will take sixteen everything from us.
Has taken in the past.
The corridor will be taken one time.
I think that any government of Bangladesh has to give it.
Because it is very clear.
India's satisfying provision in power-centric politics or in India's good books's is  required for both the ruling party or power-hoping party.
Once you get the corridor.
There is a great lack of patriotic politicians in Bangladesh today.
To protect the country's interest in seeing the interests of the country - our interest in politicians is less than the enthusiasm.
This will make Bangladesh the target of freedom fighters in those areas.
Even the sabotage activities may start here.
Bangladesh's security forces, Bangladesh's Bridge culvert can be targeted for their attacks.
By that the population can become uneasy
We can get in trouble with a burden.
From one border of India to another border, goods or military equipment will be able to ease the traffic and safety of Indian vehicles.
I do not know whether there is a clause written in this framework agreement or even if there is a framework agreement.
Unless it is said that India is being given a corridor or India is taking a corridor against the will of the people of Bangladesh.
My belief was that people would not allow the Awami League to come to power.
As speaking, India is given a corridor against the wishes of the people.
It is also a lot of cheating.
If they do not want it but they are imposed on it, they will not like it.
Now someone in the forest of the night or in the solitary forest area, attacking Indian vehicles!
Normal robbers can also do this.
There is no guarantee that the freedom fighters will not take such initiative!
Even when a normal accident falls into the ditch, it will not be called sabotage!
There will be adequate security measures to ensure that these vehicles of India reach safely in Bangladesh from one border to another border.
Before every truckload, the Bangladesh Army or RAB police will be behind the BDR guard.
How is the manpower that is in Bangladesh?
Then let's say the state of the road.
India's heavy-duty truck lock will run on the road management that has crashed under the pressure of the country's transport system.
What will be the situation of the public path!
Someone does not lock with fence wire in three directions.
If the friends thought they would not have killed us by shooting at the border.
If you think of a friend, you can not take the water of a one-sided river before seeing your own interests
It did not take 37 years for three bigha corridors.
Do not believe with anything.
Our politicians are giving, not the people of Bangladesh.
But it should be remembered that the system is being arranged by the aisle against the will of the people of Bangladesh.
Our leader's patriotic mind know to countrymen.
They have no say for them.
Mamta Banarajira Chana, because of her friendship, the interests of her state are least affected.
Think once more before taking the corridor to Bangladesh.
You took the corridor for yourself.
Whenever you do not want to get it.
But before the truck runs on the chest, check out how ordinary Bangladeshi people are taking .
It should be kept in mind that no arrangement will end till the people's wishes.
If you are a buddy, then put up the evidence of friendship.
Get the confidence of the people of Bangladesh, they will give you the security of your vehicles.
Only then can the transit or corridor be in real sense.
The Land Ministry has taken the initiative to develop the ideal social forestry in the green area surrounding the charcoal in the coastal areas.
As part of this initiative, Noakhali district will be considered as the primary pilot project.
The coastal regions of the country will be brought under it.
The Bangladesh Army will work fully in this work.
A source responsible for the land ministry said this.
For this, it is necessary to determine the quality of soil in the region and determine the species of forestry.
So there is a great deal of forestry here.
They may now be waiting to present the offer.
We used to sit in Europe and spend a lot of time studying Bangla.
The environment is not favorable to us.
Still we write.
The number of books published in Bengali-English is 19.
I have many articles on Bengali language articles.
I have written many times in the newspapers of Europe, with the richness of Bangla language, loneliness of the words, and fascination of rhythm.
Bangladeshi of Bangladesh is my ideal and address.
Do not let me down.
Abdur Razzak Hawladar patiently decided to do something by capitalizing his intellect.
Mostafiz Bappari extended his hand to cooperate with this decision.
Mostafiz, after seeing Razzak's intellect, gave money to buy 3 hundred ducklings.
Pond and Khal-bal are mostly in Barisal region.
Keeping in view this aspect of environmental aspects of the area, Abdur Razzaq took a pledge to nourish duck.
300 ducklings bought from the neighboring village.
In 2008, Duck Farm established in the village of Narayangul in Kalshkali union starting with ducklings.
He wins the need for every moment of the farm.
In spite of being able to do poultry that would be self-reliant in a short time,
Thus, the self-reliant Abdur Razzak Howlader is an exemplary example for unemployed youth of the area.
There are many small ducks farms which have been developed in this region.
Duck has brought him happiness.
Due to the availability of natural food, its poultry is giving more egg than the duck in other area.
There has been a way to earn money by selling food, snails and duck eggs, and many more unemployed people here.
Every year 1500 eggs are available from 2 thousand 2 hundred ducks.
An adult duck was sold at two and a half to three hundred rupees.
Earning at least 3,500 taka per day with paying all costs.
Abdur Razzak has kept 6 more employees for farm maintenance due to the increase in the area of ​​the farm.
Tested in the history but failed in general science.
How is it possible?
It was said by this year's SSC exam participant student Bina Mouri.
As a result, these students and their parents are frustrated.
In the modern world, many wonderful and speedy vehicles have been invented for movement.
Roads and untimely developments have been greatly appreciated.
And so the speed of all the fast moving vehicles is impossible demand.
In the same sequence, many old-fashioned models of popular vehicles are not used anymore.
There is a lot to be left out of the past to keep pace with the modern era or not to stay alive and save time.
Then it becomes part of history.
But do not forget our past traditions.
The need to know the past and also to the next generation is inevitable.
Improving the past and keeping in mind the implementation of the future action plan, the benefits come at ease.
Seeing the Palki is almost like a moderate type of vault.
Generally, it was made with bash and wood, and the above was a beautiful shade of raw Tin.
Wooden craftsmanship was available in Palaki.
Then the elite Palki's name changed to the name "Sawari".
Even in the arbitration trials, the big judges would have been seen riding on the Palki with a lot of comfort.
Palki was the only ideal vehicle for the elderly or sick women to move.